Inaugural address of  Charles J. Bell  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1904  Thursday, October 6, 1904 Inaugural Address   Gentlemen of the General Assembly: In accordance with the constitution of the commonwealth, we are convened for the purpose of legislating in the interests and for the prosperity and dignity of our state. I believe that our industries are well represented in this body; that a full measure of the wisdom and virtue of the  state  are  here  assembled;  and  that  we  are  united  in  the  determination  that  the  best  laws  should  be  enacted and that unwise laws should be repealed. Trusting  in an overruling Providence  that guides  the affairs of states and shapes our destinies, may we each realize the necessity of acting well and wisely our part for the greatest good of all our people. TAXATION. The question of taxation is one of the most important matters to be considered in this session. We are trying to improve the condition of our state along all lines. For such improvements every one should be  willing  to  pay  a  just  proportion.    All  property  should  be  made  to  pay  taxes  according  to  its  productive valuation. We  should  avoid double  taxation  and  all property, both  real  and personal,  should be made  to pay  its share. When we  legislate  to  exempt  any  property  or  class  of  values  from  taxation  it  becomes  a  difficult matter  to frame  just  laws. When all property  is equitably  taxed and  there are no exemptions whatever,  then  laws are, and can be made more simple and effective. In  years  past  many  million  dollars’  worth  of  property,  largely  in  the  form  of  lumber,  has  been  taken  from our hills and mountains  into market without  taxation,  thereby depriving our  state of enormous values without a just return. The only thing left in such instances is denuded land tracts and depleted streams. I  am  in  favor  of  a  law  whereby  no  property,  real  or  personal,  shall  be  exempt  from  its  proper  levy  for  the support of the public treasury. SCHOOLS. We have improved our laws considerably in the past few years in regard to the public schools. The  report of  the  superintendent of education, which you will have before you,  shows  that  the average paid our  teachers during  the  last  two years has considerably  increased. While  the  increase  is small,  it proves  that  the tendency is steadily in the direction of more competent instruction in our common schools. In  view  of  the  widely  scattered  condition  of  our  rural  communities,  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  it  would  be  a step  in  the  right  direction  for many  towns  to  look  toward  a  central  school,  to  which  all  pupils  can  be  brought, thus making  it  possible  to  give  them  the  benefits  of  the  better  educational  advantages  thus  afforded  at  a  slight increase  of  cost.  The  added  advantage  of  such  educational  facilities  at  home  where  the  pupil  while  obtaining them  can  remain within  the  circle  of  home  influence  and  restraint, would,  I  believe,  be  a  guarantee  of  the  best results.  In  such  a  school,  with  so  much  of  nature  all  about,  the  science  of  agriculture  should  be  prominently taught,  in  order  that  the  pupil may  better  understand  the  deeper meaning  and  influence  of  home  environments and advantages. In other states where this course has been pursued, the results have been most satisfactory. I am mindful  of  our  somewhat  strenuous  weather  during  the  winter  months,  but  a  slight  readjustment  of  the  school year  to make  the vacation  in  summer  shorter  and  in winter  longer, would  remove much of  the objection  to  this plan. BETTER HIGHWAYS. The roads of Vermont have been greatly improved under our present laws.   The report of the state highway commissioner will inform you fully of this important work. I  believe  in  government  aid  in  road  building.  It  is  certainly  reasonable  for  the  general  government,  while doing  so  much  in  the  larger  towns  by  way  of  public  buildings  and  public  works,  to  do  something  that  will benefit large and small towns alike in the way of road improvements. Vermont’s  highways  should  be  so  constructed  and maintained  as  to  not  only  facilitate  business,  but  also  to add to the health and pleasure of those who chance to use them. The  roads have been built, paid  for  and maintained  for  the use  and  convenience of  the  traveler, whether on foot or in team. In keeping up with the wonderful inventions of the age, we should legislate so that the roads be kept safe for all.  At present this is not the case. Would  it  not  be  well  to  restrict  the  automobile  to  a  few  roads  and  trunk  lines,  when  possible,  reserving some,  and  the  winding  narrow  hill  roads  for  the  exclusive  use  of  teams?    This  would  remove  one  source  of danger. I would  recommend  some  system  of  highway  supervision,  requiring  a  license  for  the  automobile,  that  it  be numbered  for  identification,  restrained  in  rate  of  speed,  and  restricted  to  the  freedom  of  certain  thoroughfares which could be marked so plainly that whoever runs may read and understand. I  am  in  favor  of  some  law  covering  the  better  care  of  roadside  environments.    Obstructions,  bushes  and unsightly weeds  should  be  destroyed,  for  they  become  an  offence.    Let  the  trees  remain;  the  shade  tree  by  the highway should be regarded the personal friend of every traveler for it helps to make his journey more pleasant.  We should have laws in regard to these matters, and they should be strictly enforced. I  would  have  a  law  forbidding  the  custom  of  making  bridges  and  highway  fences  billboards  for  the  free advertising  of  all  sorts  of  wares.    In  a  chance  trip  for  instance  across  the  country,  it  is  often  a  matter  of considerable doubt, judging by the nature of the placards, just what a certain farmer’s specialties are, potatoes or soap and patent medicine. STATE INSTITUTIONS. The proper conduct of the various public institutions of the state should be the pride of every loyal citizen. I have recently had the pleasure of visiting these institutions on a tour of inspection with other state officials, and  can  frankly  say  that  I was  in  every  instance much  impressed with  the high grade of  service  the  state has  at its  command  in  them.    Along  broad  lines  and  speaking  generally,  the  public  institutions  of  Vermont  are  in excellent shape.  I was forcibly impressed that in each instance the comfort and health of all inmates is always a matter of  first concern, and as a  result most of  those  thus cared  for are better provided with  the actual comforts of  life  than  they could have possibly been at home.   My only wish  is  that any one disposed  to criticize any one or  all  of  our  public  institutions,  first  visit  them  with  a  view  to  details.    They  are  public  institutions.  They  are open  to public  inspection, and  those  in control are not only willing but anxious  to give all possible  information in regard to them. In the case of the hospital at Waterbury, it should be remembered that under our present law many towns are able  to  rid  themselves  of  what  was  formerly  an  expense  to  them,  thus  lessening  the  burden  to  the  town,  but increasing the cost to the state. Any  one who  visits  the  Soldiers’ Home  at Bennington must  be  impressed with  the  fact  that Vermont  cares most tenderly for the veterans.  It is a touching lesson in patriotism to the generation just coming upon the stage of action.  I am  in  favor of  increasing,  if necessary,  rather  than  lessening,  the cost of properly caring  for  the old soldier while he is with us. As  to  these  and  other  institutions,  however,  I  have  no  specific  recommendations  to  offer  at  this  time.  The reports  of  the  officers  of  each,  and  the  suggestions  of  the  retiring  administration  as  detailed  by  Gov. McCullough in his message, are before you, and are entitled to your careful consideration.  ATTORNEY-GENERAL. I heartily recommend the creation of the new office of attorney-general.  I  believe  the  services  of  such  an  official  would  not  only  be  a  great  advantage  to  the  state  in  its  criminal prosecutions, but also a great convenience  to  the executive and other departments of  the government  in matters that are constantly arising where the best legal experience is demanded. The custom has arisen in many instances of electing the younger and less experienced members of the bar to the office of state’s attorney. This is perhaps natural enough and there are many good and sufficient reasons for it which  it  is not necessary  to  discuss  at  this  time. The  result has been, however,  that  the  important  interests of the  state,  in  criminal  litigation,  especially,  have  often  been  placed  in  inexperienced  hands,  and  the  state’s attorneyship has become an experiment station in the law. The  auditor’s  report  for  the  biennial  term  ending  June  30,  1904,  shows  that  the  following  sums  have  been paid  in  the  several  counties  for  grand  jury  services  during  the  past  two  years:  Addison,  $293.60;  Bennington, $1,186.48;  Caledonia,  $651.34;  Chittenden,  $394.96;  Essex,  $265.44:  Franklin,  $557.76;  Grand  Isle,  $182.84; Lamoille,  $308.73  Orange,  $536.76;  Orleans,  $874.00;  Rutland,  $579.60;  Washington,  $3,112.32;  Windham, $231.60; Windsor,  $575.36,  a  total  of  over  $6,000.  It  is  reasonable  to  presume  that  if  the  state’s  attorneys  had had  the  benefit  of  the  experienced  services  of  an  attorney-general  in  the  preparation  of  cases,  some  of  this expense might have been avoided. During  the  past  two  years  there  has  been  paid  out  in  counsel  for  the  state  in  county  court  $2,870.30; supreme  court,  $243.04;  employed  by  the  governor,  $541.73;  employed  by  the  railroad  commission.  $555.00; employed  by  the  board  of  health,  $70.  The  services  for  which  this  expense  was  incurred  would  have  been satisfactorily performed by an attorney-general, had there been one. I  am  sure  that  such  an  official,  whose  compensation  should  be  placed  at  a  reasonable  figure  and  still  be sufficient  to attract our best  talent  for  the service, would  result  in a more prompt and effective execution of our criminal  laws,  and  at  the  same  time  tend  to  the  administration  of  the  affairs  of  the  state  along  the  lines  of  a broader economy. CATTLE COMMISSION. At  the  last  session  of  the  legislature  the  work  of  this  commission  was  separated  from  that  of  the  board  of agriculture. With  the  law  as  it  is  at  present,  owners  obtain  eighty  per  cent  of  the  value  of  their  diseased  cattle,  and  the hides.  The  proper  execution  of  the  law  has  been  crippled  by  lack  of  proper  provision  for  the  expense  of assistants  and  veterinaries.  Many  herds  have  been  tested  at  the  expense  of  owners.  The  biennial  report  of  the commission  will  show  cost  of  about  $48,000.  I  would  advise  enlarging  the  power  of  the  commission  and  the establishing of some date after which  the state shall cease  to be responsible for nearly  the full value of diseased animals. RAILROAD COMMISSION. The power and duties of this commission have been considerably enlarged from year to year. It would  now  seem  advisable  to  go  at  least  one  step  further  and  provide  that  in  the  cases where  competing lines are so seriously at variance  that  there  is no hope  for  reasonable  results,  the commission have  the power  to step in and take some action to prevent further inconvenience to the traveling public. VERMONT’S WEALTH AND ATTRACTIONS. We  are making  commendable  progress  in  the  development  of  our mines  and  quarries.    Our manufacturing interests  increase  by  leaps  and  bounds  from  year  to  year,  until  nearly  every  city  and  large  village  within  our borders  has  some  important  industry  to  the  conspicuous  success  of which  the whole  state  can  justly  point with pride.    In  a  large  number  of  instances  these  particular  enterprises  are  standards  of  their  kind,  and  by  the excellent quality of their product are able to lead the way against the sharpest competition of the general market. Mindful  of  all  this,  however,  I  still  maintain  that  agriculture  continues  to  be  our  distinction,  and  the  most important field for our activity and best endeavor. In  view  of  possible  legislation,  I  call  your  attention  to  the  board  of  agriculture,  the  good  work  of  the agricultural  college,  the  interests  of  the  forestry  commission,  the  dairymen’s  association,  the  maple  sugar association, the horticultural society, and kindred organizations. There  is  no  question  but  that  the Vermont  farmer  aided  by  these  and  supplemented  by  the  instructive work of  the  grange,  has  been  able  to  systematically  increase  and  wonderfully  develop  the  agricultural  wealth  of  the state, until today while cultivating less acres, he is making possible larger pro rata crops, and is producing larger pro  rata amounts of maple  sugar,  fruit, corn, grain, hay, potatoes and dairy products,  than any other  state  in  the union.   Furthermore, with  improved machinery and with brains  trained  to better appreciate  the relation of cause and effect, he is doing all this with better actual results in profits than ever before. Today farming is recognized as a science. I could almost say it ought to be classed as one of the professions, for  he who will  succeed  in  it must  study, must  be well  informed  and must  thoroughly  understand  the  business. From  this  it  follows  that  the  farmer  must  recognize  his  rights  and  be  ready  to  demand  them  in  matters  of legislation. The advantage in respect to numbers in this general assembly is, as always, with the farmer, and his interests should be given the just attention they deserve. COMING LEGISLATIVE ELECTIONS. At  specified  times  during  the  session,  it  will  be  your  duty  to  elect  important  state  officers,  including  the judges of the supreme court. These elections demand your most careful attention. Upon the result of your action in these matters, depends to a great degree, our administrative success for the next two years. You will be called upon  to elect a  successor  to Hon. Redfield Proctor as United States Senator  for  the  term of  six  years  from  March  4,  1905.  The  result  of  your  action  in  this  instance  is  of  more  than  local  or  state importance;  it  is  an  affair  of  national  consequence.  So  long  as  we  are  represented  in  the  Senate  of  the  United States by such men as Edmund and Morrill, Proctor and Dillingham, we shall be heard  from  in national affairs, and Vermont will, as in the past, continue to occupy a commanding position in matters of national legislation. IN CONCLUSION. Much  intended  legislation  is  suggested,  and  no  doubt  considerable  is  desirable,  regulating  the  careful expenditure  of  public  funds,  looking  to  an  improved  system  of  auditing  accounts,  the  better  protection  of  fish and game, a reasonable caucus law, and a more effective restriction of the liquor traffic. You  are  elected  to  attend  to  these  matters  in  the  best  interests  of  the  state.  Let  me  suggest  in  closing,  that you  cannot  conclude  your  work  satisfactorily  to  yourself  or  the  state  unless  you  bring  these  matters  up  for consideration  at  the  earliest  possible moment,  and,  after  necessary  deliberation  let  your  conclusions  be  prompt and honest and the result of most mature judgment. At  the  conclusion  of  the  message  Governor  Batchelder  of  New  Hampshire  addressed  the  Joint  Assembly. Thereupon the Governor withdrew and the Joint Assembly dissolved.  FREDERICK G. FLEETWOOD Secretary of State, Clerk.