Inaugural address of  Charles M. Smith    As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1935  Thursday, January 10, 1935 Inaugural Message  Members of the General Assembly: It  is  with  much  pleasure  that  I  greet  you  here  today.  We  have  been  highly  honored  by  our  various constituencies and come here, I know, with the high resolve to serve with unity the whole people of our state. FINANCES The  finances  of  the  state will  affect  the  larger  part  of  your  action.  The money which  you  appropriate must come  from  taxation. Our  people  are  not  so  situated  at  the present  time  that we  should  add  to  their burdens, but should rather lighten them. Our present tax system is equitable and, I believe, should be retained. I am decidedly opposed  to  a  return  to  taxation  of  real  estate,  but  our  revenues  have  shrunken  very  materially  and  it  will  be  a problem to meet our most necessary requirements. The  payments  on  our  bonded  indebtedness  have  been  met  and  so  this  indebtedness  has  been  materially reduced,  but  we  have  a  large  floating  indebtedness.    The  Treasurer  is  now  borrowing  this  money  at  very advantageous  rates,  but  times  may  change  and  this  item  may  become  troublesome.  I  very  much  wish  that  the amount  of  this  indebtedness might  be  reduced  by  payments. Or  it might  be well  to  issue  bonds  patterned  after our flood bond issue. The rate might be temporarily more than we are paying now. I simply wish to bring this to your attention. You will  have  in  your  hands within  a  few  days  the  biennial  budget, which will  give  you  in  some  detail  the items  of  departmental  expenditures;  the  statement  of  the  Commissioner  of  Finance,  regarding  expenditures other  than  departmental,  and  the  statement  of  the  Treasurer  of  the  indebtedness  of  the  state.  I  commend  this budget to your careful consideration. My  recommendations  for  appropriations  follow  closely  the  amounts  in  the  appropriation  bill  of  two  years ago.    I  have  raised  the  appropriation  for  the  Educational  Department  to  approximately  the  former  amount  and doubled  the appropriations  for publicity and  for mother’s aid. Aside  from  these changes,  the  recommendations, as I say, follow the appropriation bill of the last session. The figures in the budget are based upon the salary lists before  the Emergency  Salary Bill.  If  this  bill  is  re-enacted  the  amount  saved  through  it will  be  reflected  in  the figures of the budget. AGRICULTURE Agriculture is our most important industry. Substantially one-third of our population lives on farms. Another third in our villages are hugely dependent upon the income from these farms. Thus a profitable agriculture and a satisfying  rural  life  constitute our  chief  concern. Briefly, while  conditions have  improved  somewhat during  the past  year,  it  still  requires  substantially  twice  as  much  milk,  or  other  products,  to  meet  the  fixed  charges  and living  costs of normal  times. The problems  connected with  this  situation  are  far  too numerous  to be  covered  in this message. I will mention only a few. The major  source of  farm  income  in Vermont  is  from  the  sale of dairy products—primarily  fluid milk. The nature  of  this  product  is  such  as  to  present  peculiar marketing  problems which must  be  solved  if  producers  are to  have  a  stable market  and  consumers  a  stable,  adequate  supply  of  high  quality  product. The  solution  of  these problems  require,  at  this  time,  not  only  strong  producer  organization,  but  also  assistance  from  governmental agencies.  All  possible  encouragement  and  facilitating  legislation  should  be  provided  to  this  end. We  need  the continuance  of  our  state milk  control  board  to  care  for  the  problems  connected  with milk marketed  within  the state,  just  as  we  need  federal  government  assistance—by  way  of  marketing  agreements  and  licenses—in connection with the milk marketed outside the state. We  should  give  careful  consideration  to  other  agricultural  problems,  especially  maple  syrup,  poultry, potatoes and fruit—important products of our Vermont farms. Along with effective marketing of our agricultural products goes efficient production of them. The only way to hold our markets  is  to produce at a cost  low enough  to  enable us  to meet competition. There  is no  substitute for  this.  To  that  end  many  things  are  necessary.  Farmers  must  have  the  latest  and  best  information  available regarding  production  as  well  as  marketing.  Our  agricultural  educational  institutions  must  be  maintained  and liberally  supported.  The  Agricultural  College,  training  our  young  men  and  women  in  agriculture  and  home economics;  the  Experimental  Station,  engaged  in  research  to  solve  farm  and  home  problems;  the  Extension Service,  with  its  County,  Home  Demonstration  and  4-H  Club  agents  carrying  the  gospel  of  better  farming, better  marketing  and  better  living  to  our  thousands  of  rural  homes.  Our  State  School  of  Agriculture,  giving sound training to boys unable to attend college, and the agriculture and economic courses in high schools. These must all be maintained and supported as they are necessary to a prosperous and satisfying rural life.  Some  provision  should  be  made  for  effective  control  of  devastating  diseases  of  plants  and  animals, especially  when  such  diseases  are  costly  to  the  producer  and  jeopardize  the  health  of  the  consumer. We  have practically  eradicated  bovine  tuberculosis  and  must  see  to  it  that  we  remain  free  from  it.  The  federal government, with emergency legislation, is attacking Bangs disease and mastitis and we should cooperate to the fullest extent with this activity. There  are many  federal projects  related  to  agriculture of which we may  take  advantage. We  should be  alert to  work  out  ways  of  profiting  by  these  activities.  Legislative  action  can  help.  It  can  provide  protection, safeguards and facilities that cannot be provided otherwise. It is our duty to enact this legislation, where needed, and to this duty I would direct your attention. INDUSTRY It  is  recognized  that  there can be no permanent prosperity  for one class of our people at  the expense of any other  class.  We  move  up  and  down  together,  the  farmer,  the  merchant,  the  laborer,  the  banker  and  the manufacturer. We cannot  live  independently. We are all profoundly concerned with  the well-being of all of our people. A  large  part  of  our  manufactured  products  are  sold  outside  of  Vermont  and  we  are  naturally  brought  into direct  competition  with  other  states,  particularly  with  all  New  England.  We  must  aid  and  encourage  our industries  wherever  we  may,  because  with  increased  output  comes  increased  employment  for  labor  and  better wages. Our  small  industries  in  small  communities  must  lie  protected  because  they  are  a  great  and  necessary contribution to the welfare of the people of our small towns. It  is very essential  that any proposed  legislation which would place upon  industry  increased burdens should and must be avoided. LABOR In  these  unsettled  times  labor  has  suffered  with  others  −  perhaps  more  than  others.  They  must  be  given every opportunity to help themselves and promote their welfare. We must not forget them in any particular. WELFARE Regarding  the  activity  of  the  state  in  its  various  departments,  the Department  of Welfare  has  under  its  care the  State  Hospital  at Waterbury,  the  Industrial  School  at  Vergennes,  the  State  Prison  at Windsor,  Riverside  at Rutland,  the  Brandon  State  School,  Kinstead,  the  Washington  County  Sanitorium  at  Barre,  and  the  Vermont Sanitorium at Pittsford. These are fine institutions and we can be proud of them and their management. They  are,  of  course,  occupied  by  unfortunate  wards  of  the  state  who  are  in  need  of  and  are  receiving  the finest care possible.  I would  like  to emphasize and extend  the humanitarian side of  their care. There  is much of worth in these state wards.   EDUCATION At the last biennial session of the Legislature a resolution was adopted requesting the Governor to appoint a commission  of  seven members  to  consider  and  report upon our  educational  system. The  commission  called  for was appointed and has made a painstaking study of state educational problems and has lately made its report. I anticipate that much good will come from this study and the commission’s recommendations. HIGHWAYS The extent of our  road building  is a question of money.   Our policy of  appropriating motor vehicle  and gas tax  revenues  to  highways,  as  required  by  state  law,  with  the  cooperation  of  the  federal  government,  has  made possible the accomplishments of the past several years. I heartily favor  the extension of our state highway system, as proposed by  the Highway Board, and approve the policy of extending  improvements,  through state aid,  to other classes of  roads. The wisdom of  this policy  is very apparent. It  must  not  be  overlooked  that  highway  construction  and  maintenance  offers  the  most  direct  and  available work relief measure carried on by the state. However,  in  view  of  the  high  registration  fees  and  their  burden  upon  our  people,  I  recommend  that  a reduction of 15% be made in fees for registration of pleasure cars. In view of what happened to the income from this source  the past year—there being such a marked  increase  in face of  the reduction of 10%  in fees granted at the  last  session  of  the  Legislature—we  might  expect  to  gain  in  revenue  by  this  reduction,  contradictory  as  it may seem. I would like also to recommend a change of registration date from January 1st to April 1st. You will recall that the highway system of Vermont is divided into three classes; state highways, state aid or secondary roads and town highways sometimes referred to as “back roads”. The  state  highway  comprises  1,029  miles  of  important  trunk  lines.  They  were  taken  over  by  the  state  in 1931.  Up  to  that  time  they  were  classed  as  state  aid  highways  and  were  combined,  with  the  present  state  aid highways. This system is under the direct control of the Department of Highways. The state aid system is 3,362 miles of roads, selected by the selectmen as the most  important in their towns. These  connect  the  different  villages  of  the  state  and  reach  to  every  town.  The  State  Highway  Board  is recommending  in  their biennial  report  the  taking over of  about 700 miles of  the more  important  state  aid  roads into the state highway system. I have already endorsed this recommendation of the Board. The  town  highways  total  9,993  miles  and  generally  lead  from  the  state  aid  system  into  the  more  remote districts. These are entirely supervised by  the  town authorities. The Legislature appropriated at  the  last biennial session $500,000 annually to aid the towns in the construction and maintenance of this system. This amounts to approximately $50 a mile. The  federal  aid  system  are  the  roads  on which  the  state  is  commonly  authorized  to  spend  federal  funds.  In Vermont this system corresponds almost exactly with the state highway system. It seems to me that this division of our highway system is extremely well adapted to the needs of our state. RECREATIONAL The  recreational  business  of  our  state  is  coming  to  be  one  of  the  chief  income  producers  for  our  people.  It would appear wise to take advantage of and foster this line endeavor. Our publicity department has done  excellent work with  the  small  amount  available  for  its use. Neighboring states  have  large  and  costly  programs  and  I  am  recommending  in  the  budget  an  appropriation  of  $50,000  for publicity. While our publicity department calls attention to our attractions and sings our praises as a recreation ground, the Fish and Game Department and  the Forestry Department are doing  their part  to make good  these claims, as well as to serve our own people. The  departments  are  closely  related. Right  now  they  are working  together,  under  the  leadership  of  the Fish and Game Department, in making wonderful exhibits in several of the larger cities. I  wish  to  offer  for  your  consideration  a  consolidation  of  these  three  departments  through  a  Department  of Conservation,  with  a  board  of  three  members,  similar  to  our  other  boards.  This  board  could  select  the  highest type of directors for  these various endeavors, with a continuity of work removed from politics. I  leave  this with you for consideration. During  the  past  year  and  a  half  the  Forest  Service  has  had  the  successful  direction  of  fifteen  Emergency Conservation Camps. As  a  result  of  the  labors  of  these  3,000  youths  much  valuable  work  has  been  done  for  fish  and  game, recreation and  forestry. Several hundred  fish dams have been built, miles of stream  improved, several  thousand wild game  food plants  set out. Eleven new  forest  fire  look-out  towers have been built. Twenty new picnic  sites with  pure  water  and  sanitary  facilities  have  been  developed.  Arches  and  picnic  tables  sufficient  to  seat  6,000 people  at  once  are  now  available  to  public  use,  About  thirty  miles  of  ski  trails  on  Mount  Mansfield,  Burke Mountain and Bald Mountain at Townshend have been built. Over seventy-five miles of forest roads have been built  and  repaired.  Beach  developments  at  Sand  Bar  and  Elmore  Lake  will  be  available  for  public  use  next summer. Eight thousand acres of timber lands have been improved by cuttings. It  is  expected  that  the  Federal  Government  will  continue  and  increase  this  work  over  the  next  two  years. Vermont must be  ready  to  accept what  federal assistance  is available  to us. The  fish and game and  recreational developments  already  completed  will  not  only  serve  our  own  people  but  will  also  attract  many  thousands  of tourists. STATE PLANNING BOARD In cooperation with  the National Resources Board, an advisory State Planning Board has been appointed  in Vermont corresponding in character to similar boards or commissions in more than forty states. The  Vermont  board  has  already  demonstrated  its  value  as  a  research  and  coordinating  state  agency  and  I recommend  that  you  give  this  matter  consideration  and  possibly  the  passage  of  a  simple  act  establishing  an official statutory commission. RURAL ELECTRICITY It  seems  probable  that  something  may  be  accomplished  in  the  near  future  regarding  rural  electrification.  Vermont  is backward  in  this  respect. The period of  the kerosene  lamp  is past.  It  is  time  that  the  farmer  and his wife have the help of electricity at a price within their means. Maybe  the  young  people  would  take  more  kindly  to  the  home  place  if  it  could  be  modernized  and brightened  up  in  this  way.  Efforts  will  be  made  through  various  agencies  to  bring  about  a  more  general electrification. OLD AGE PENSION If  it  seems  likely  that  relief,  aside  from  that  afforded  by  public  works,  will  be  thrown  back  upon  the  state and municipality, we must prepare for this emergency. One  form  of  assistance  in  which  the  Federal  Government  is  likely  to  join  for  a  major  part  is  the  old  age pension. I most heartily recommend to you the enactment of an old age pension law. I  trust  the  measure  would  be  one  provided  for  entirely  by  the  state  and  administered  by  the  state,  unless federal enactment provides otherwise. Such an act would furnish a measure of relief to our towns. I hope that such a law may be enacted at this session. FEDERAL A  matter  of  great  importance  is  the  cooperation  with  the  Federal  Government  in  their  plans.  We  should certainly  cooperate with  the  federal  authorities  in  the  flood  control.  The  last  legislature  appropriated  $500,000 to  take  care of  this  emergency  and  some $160,000 of  this money was used  in providing  the  state’s  share  in  the several  flood  control  activities  which  are  now  approaching  completion.  This  would  amply  provide  for  the acquisition by  the  state of  the  land necessary  for  the  construction of  the  flood  control dam  above Waterbury.  It may be advisable to acquire and develop more state forest and recreational projects while we have the aid of the civilian conservation corps. It is truly remarkable what has already been done, as I have partly recited, with their help. There will probably be presented to you a bill or bills drawn in Washington with a view to adapting some of our laws to make them more workable with those of the Federal Government. CONCLUSION I  have  touched  briefly  upon  the more  important matters  that  I wish  to  bring  to  your  attention;  that  is,  state finances,  some of  the problems of our agriculture,  fostering  industry,  the welfare of  labor,  further humanitarian work  among  our  state wards,  the  extension  of  our  state  system  of  highways,  the  formation  of  a Department  of Conservation with a larger appropriation for publicity, rural electrification and an old age pension law that fixes a sweet reward for those most perplexed. I wish you all a very happy experience here. The Governor having concluded  the  reading of his message, was escorted  to  the Executive Chamber by  the committee appointed by the Chair. The Joint Assembly dissolved. RAWSON C. MYRICK,   Secretary of State, Clerk.