Inaugural address of  Charles W. Gates  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1915 Thursday, January 7, 1915 Inaugural Message  Mr. President, Gentlemen of the General Assembly: Our Constitution provides for a government of three departments—legislative, executive, and judicial—with functions separate and distinct, and yet,  the departments are so  related  that  they are dependent upon each other.  Especially  is  this  true  of  the  legislative  and  executive  departments  which  we  today  represent  in  this  Joint Assembly, convened according to our Constitution and time-honored custom. In  exercising  the  privilege  of  addressing  you  today,  I  shall  be  very  brief,  and  shall  only  in  a  general  way refer  to  the work  that  is  before  us. Let me  at  the  outset  emphasize  the  importance  of  our  keeping  constantly  in mind  the  fact  that  we  have  been  elected  by  the  people  whose  servants  we  are,  and  by  whom  our  acts  will  be judged.  While  our  election  by  the  people  for  this  purpose  is  an  honor  rightly  to  be  appreciated,  yet,  nothing short of a full realization of our responsibility to them, and the conscientious discharge of our duty will bring us an honorable acquittal at their hands. To this end our best thought and application is essential. Never  before  have  the  voters  of  the  state  taken more  active  notice  of  the  acts  of  its  public  servants  than  at the present time. Increased publicity of all matters relating to legislative and executive action creates familiarity with  state  problems,  and  this  in  turn  results  in  decided  opinions—opinions  varying  widely  on  almost  every question  of  importance, which  often makes  the  discovery  of  the  proper  solution  a  very  difficult  task—difficult because  oft  times  opinions  most  vigorously  expressed  may  lead  us  astray.  It  is  sometimes  our  highest  duty  to oppose what might seem overwhelming public opinion. We are here to deliberate, to weigh the facts, to legislate wisely.  We  must  also  take  into  account  the  rapid  change  that  has  occurred  in  business,  social,  and  political ideas. So  rapid has been  this change  that some basic principles are  in danger of being swept aside  to satisfy  the popular  will.  One  of  the  most  evident  manifestations  of  this  change  is  the  tendency  to  place  upon  the  central government  many  varied  powers  and  responsibilities  that  heretofore  rested  with  the  people  themselves.  Just how  far  we,  as  a  state,  should  go  towards  parental  government,  will  be  the  question  often  to  be  considered  in our deliberations, and our determinations will require our wisest judgment. By  such  a  government,  some  things  can  be  done  better,  more  thoroughly,  and  more  economically  than  by the  people,  or  towns  direct. We  find  by  experience  that  the  state  should  take  charge  in  a  very  large measure  of our  public  safety,  of  our  courts,  and  police  powers,  and  of  our  public  health,  and  to  a  certain  degree,  of  our schools, and state highways. On  the other hand,  I believe we will  all  agree  that  it would be most unfortunate  to have our people  entirely relieved of  the active  responsibilities of citizenship with  the exception of  the election of  the necessary officials. Such a condition,  it seems  to me, would destroy  the greatest safeguard we have  to our body politic—individual activity, responsibility and independence.  Vermont has not gone far astray in this matter, and has wisely chosen a course between  the  two extremes. To emphasize  this point by way of  illustration,  let me  refer  to our highway department—the  department  with  which  I  am  most  familiar.  For  several  years  there  has  been  an  irresistible demand  that  the  state  assume  more  complete  control  of  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  our  principal highways.  This  we  have  gradually  done  during  the  last  eight  years making  an  advance  at  each  session,  not  by taking over our state roads entirely and bonding the state for their construction as other states have done, but by retaining  the  town  as  the  unit,  recognizing  the  towns  as  partners  and  aiding  liberally  such  as  will  help themselves,  thus encouraging  individual effort and stimulating  town pride, until every  town  in  the state but  two have taken advantage of the law at some time since its passage. This plan is producing live, competent road men in  every  part  of  the  state,  and  has  developed  a  growing  healthy  sentiment,  which  no  doubt  has  resulted  in  a greater improvement for the money expended than would have been possible under complete state control. The  tendency  towards a  larger degree of state control  in this and  in other departments brings forcibly  to our attention  the matter of state expense. This has steadily grown  in volume during  the past  ten years, and has been given wide publicity.   By  some  this  increase  is deemed  too  large  from every  standpoint; by others  it  is deemed none too large, if value is received. A  careful  perusal  of  the  reports  of  the  different  state  departments  will  reveal  the  fact  that  almost  every department  is  growing,  and many  of  them  will  need  larger  appropriations,  if  we  permit  their  growth  and meet the demands. Vermont  is  not  backward  in  its  views.  Our  people  will  not  balk  at  expense  that  is  necessary.  They  do  not want to go without those things that build for a better citizenship, or for the state’s best prosperity. We need not hesitate  to  build  well  for  Vermont—as  well  as  our  finances  will  permit.  But  this  fact  confronts  us  in  our deliberations—this year  is  about  the  turning point  in our  state  financial  situation, where  increased  expenditures from  whatever  cause  will  have  to  be  met  by  a  direct  state  tax.  Rigid  economy  is  absolutely  essential  to  a favorable  balance  sheet.  Every  unnecessary  expense  should  be  cut  out,  and  items  of  new  expense  to  the  state should  be  carefully  scrutinized,  even  though  their  purpose  is  entirely  laudable  and  desirable.    I  am  reminded here of the phrase in our State Constitution, which reads “And previous to any law being made to raise a tax, the purpose  for  which  it  is  to  be  raised  ought  to  appear  evident  to  the  legislature  to  be  of  more  service  to  the community than the money would be if not collected.’’ This might well be our guide  in making appropriations. I am quite confident  that  the good  judgment of  this body can be depended upon to handle this matter satisfactorily. The  expense  of  our  meeting  here  is  heavy  under  the  most  favorable  circumstances,  this  fact  should  not, however,  deter  us  from  the  fullest  deliberation  over  all  important  measures.  Inadequate  or  ill  considered legislation might be productive of more harm to the state than increased expense. Let  us  each  endeavor  to  eliminate  all  unnecessary  legislation,  and  undue  delay  of  proper  legislation. Let  us claim  credit  for  the  number  of  bills we  do  not  introduce,  rather  than  the  number we  do  introduce.    In  short,  let this session,  the first  to be held under  the change  in our Constitution, be conspicuous for  the quality of  its work completed in the shortest time consistent with thoroughness, and we will best serve the state, and our efforts are certain to be appreciated. I deem  it unwise at  this  time  to go  into detail on  the various subjects  that will engross our attention, such as direct primary, workmens’ compensation,  the  judiciary, education, agriculture, and such changes  in our statutes as  are  necessary  to  conform  to  our  changed  Constitution.    Educational  matters  on  account  of  their  importance will  demand  our  special  attention,  and,  in  this  connection,  let  me  refer  to  the  most  liberal  proposal  which  we have received from the Hon. Theodore N. Vail, of Lyndonville, who offers the Lyndon Agricultural School and Speedwell  Farms;  fully  equipped,  as  a  free  gift  to  the  state  for  educational  purposes.  Your  favorable consideration of this offer is most earnestly recommended. I  will  be  glad  to  communicate  with  you  later  as  occasion  may  require,  and  in  connection  with  all  these matters  I  promise  you  my  best  efforts,  and  I  shall  need  your  kind  consideration  and  assistance.  I  request  you individually to give me at any time such views as you may wish to express on legislation of importance. I extend to you my hearty good wishes for the successful outcome of this session. At the conclusion of the message the Governor withdrew and the Joint Assembly dissolved. GUY W. BAILEY, Secretary of State, Clerk.