Inaugural address of  Ebenezer J. Ormsbee  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1886  Thursday, October 7, 1886 Inaugural Address  GENTLEMEN OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, IN JOINT ASSEMBLY CONVENED:  We are assembled,  in accordance with  the provision of  the constitution, as  the chosen representatives of  the freemen  of  Vermont,  in  the  several  legislative  departments  of  state  government  –  each  and  all  by  our  several oaths  of  office  bound  to  faithfully  do  and  perform  every  duty.    In  aid  and  furtherance  of  our  individual determination  to  sacredly  keep  those  oaths,  let  us  ever  remember  that,  in  and  of  ourselves  only,  our  best endeavors  are  liable  to  come  to  naught;  that  abiding  strength  and  unerring  guidance  come  only  from Him who rules the universe. The people, whose servants we are, demand of us prompt and efficient action in whatever comes to us to do or  consider  as  their  representatives.    The  time  and  money  spent  here  in  their  service  is  theirs,  not  ours.    Duly impressed  with  correct  views  of  duty,  let  us  proceed  to  a  performance  of  it  with  as  much  dispatch  as  is consistent with candid consideration and safe and wise conclusions. The  biennial  reports  of  the  several  state  officers,  as  to  matters  under  their  charge,  will  be  before  you.    To these you will  look  for details and  itemized accounts of current  state affairs, and also,  for  information and  light as  to  how  well  or  ill  the  affairs  pertaining  to  the  welfare  of  the  state  have  been,  and  are  being,  performed  by your  selected and  trusted  servants –  for  the  state officers are but  the  servants of  the people, and  their  reports an account of their stewardship. It  is  a  part  of  the  duty  of  these  respective  officers  by  their  reports,  to  make  suggestions  and recommendations, and coming from persons most conversant with the details, and more familiar than most of us with the workings, as well as the needs, of their respective departments, such suggestions and recommendations are entitled to, and doubtless will have, your careful attention and consideration. The  report of  the  treasurer presents  an  itemized  statement of  the  financial  affairs  and  condition of  the  state.  The  subject  of  the  finances  of  the  state  usually  does,  and  always  should  have,  the  most  rigid  and  careful scrutiny, and the public does and should require this. TREASURER’S REPORT. From this report it appears that, at the close of the last fiscal year, July 31, 1886, the state LIABILITIES. were as follows, viz.: Due towns, U.S. Surplus Fund ......................................................................................... Due soldiers, unpaid balances .......................................................................................... Due Agricultural College Fund ........................................................................................ Balance due on appropriation for state library ................................................................. Balance due on appropriation for bridge from North Hero to Alburgh ...........................    and the  $13,397  62 8,557  46 135,500  00 22,706  55 19,062  00 ----------------- $199,224  13 RESOURCES. were as follows, viz.: Cash on hand and in banks...............................................................................................  $160,974  97 200,000  00 Estimated amount of tax from corporations for 1886 ...................................................... Estimated proceeds from sale of balance of Huntington Fund Securities ....................... 15,000  00 ------------------    $375,974  97 Of the items making up the liabilities, the following are not subject to call, and no present provision is required to meet the, viz.: $13,974  62 U.S. Surplus Fund ............................................................................................................ 8,557  46 Balance due soldiers ........................................................................................................ Agricultural College Fund ............................................................................................... 135,500  00   -----------------  Amounting to .........................................................................  $157,455  08 which  sum  deducted  from  the  total  liabilities  leaves,  subject  to  be  paid  presently,  $41,769.05,  showing  an excess of  resources over current  liabilities of $334,205.92.   This excess of available  resources  is about equal  to the expenses of  the  state  in a  session year, when no extraordinary appropriations are made or unusual expenses incurred. STATE EXPENSES. This  subject  has  received  much  attention  and  consideration  at  the  hands  of  the  legislature  within  the  last decade;  many  abuses  have  been  remedied;  many  sources  and  avenues  of  unnecessary  expense  have  been effectually closed; important streams of revenue, that had ceased to flow, partially or wholly, have been made to pour again their hidden or diverted contents into the state treasury. This  is  a  just  cause  for  congratulation  and  thankfulness.    That  so  much  has  been  accomplished,  my predecessors, in their biennial messages have uniformly given much credit to the faithful and intelligent service of  our  present  auditor  of  accounts,  and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  like  sentiments,  not  as  a  compliment merely,  but  to  give  public  and  official  recognition  and  appreciation  of  faithful  and  intelligent  performance  of duty. Turning  to  the  report  of  the  auditor  of  accounts,  we  find  that  he  has  given  requisite  attention  to  the transactions of the state treasurer, and of him he says that “all transactions in this department are correct.”  This is  gratifying,  but  not  unexpected  intelligence.    The  auditor  in  his  report,  dwells  at  some  length  on  the  fruitful subject  of  “court  expenses,”  and  your  careful  attention  is  solicited  to  the  information  there  given,  and  the suggestions and recommendations there made.  The want of uniformity in existing laws, wherein it consists, and a proposed  remedy  therefore, are so plainly set  forth,  that  there  is no occasion  for me  to dwell upon  the subject further than to express a confident hope that such legislation may be had as to provide that all costs, accruing in criminal  prosecutions,  should,  in  cases  of  conviction,  be  taxed  against  the  respondent.    So  far  as  may  be reasonably  possible,  let  the  violator  of  the  criminal  law  of  the  state,  as  a  part  of  the  penalty  of  his  crime,  be required  to  pay  the  costs  and  expenses  of  the  state  in  bringing  him  to  justice.   The  remarks  and  suggestions  of the auditor, bearing on expenses and costs in criminal cases, merit, and I trust will have, your careful and patient attention.  That  abuses  have  been  corrected  and  that  misapplied  or  withheld  funds  of  the  state  have  so  largely  found their  way  into  the  treasury  is,  as  I  have  said,  cause  for  congratulation,  but  not  an  excuse  for  relaxation  of vigilance.    You  will  not  forget  that  it  often  happens  that  there  is  the  greatest  danger  in  fact,  when  quiet  and seeming  prosperity  abound.    An  empty  treasury  is  far  from  being  an  unmixed  evil;  it  prompts  and  encourages care  and  economy,  while  an  overflowing  one  often  leads  the  way  to  extravagant  appropriations  and  waste  of public funds. Akin  to  the subject of state expenses,  is  that relating  to  the means and measures provided for meeting  them, and  this can only be accomplished by some of  the varied modes of  taxation.   And I assume  that, for  the present at  least,  it  will  be  the  policy  of  the  state  to  look  for  its  revenues  mainly  to  the  provisions  of  act  No.  1  of  the session  laws  of  1882,  entitled  “an  act  to  provide  a  revenue  for  the  payment  of  state  expenses,”  and  acts  in addition  thereto,  or  amendment  thereof,  familiarly  known  as  the  corporation  tax  law.    The  adoption  of  this method,  was,  as  you  know,  a  wide  departure  from  former  ones,  and,  in  no  limited  sense,  an  experiment.    The experiment  has  been  successful,  probably  beyond  the  expectation  of  the  most  sanguine  of  its  promoters,  and, what  is  more  surprising,  and  not  less  gratifying,  this  success  has  been  brought  about  without  friction,  or disturbance  of  the  large  business  interest  involved;  and  the  law  has,  I  believe,  the  cheerful  acquiescence  of  all parties  and  persons  made  to  contribute  by  it.    Too  much  commendation  cannot  be  given  to  the  framers promoters  of  this  law.    The  state  at  large  has  been  greatly  benefited,  and  I  am  not  aware  that  any  of  the contributing  parties  now  complain.    The  wise  and  fortunate  selection  of  a  tax  commissioner,  to  apply  and administer the law in question, and the wisdom and marked discretion with which he has performed his new and complex duties have done much  to secure  its success, and merits  this recognition at my hands.   From  the report of  the  commissioner, we  learn  that  the  taxes  assessed  under  this  law  in  1884  amounted  to  $205,221.76,  and  in 1885, $200,685.70, and  from  the  report of  the  treasurer  it appears, of  the  taxes assessed  in 1884  there was paid into the treasury the sum of $205,225.33, and of those assessed in 1885 there was paid the sum of $200,685.70; and the treasurer estimates the receipts in 1886 under the law at $200,000. The  tax  commissioner  by  his  report  makes  certain  suggestions  and  recommendations  concerning  the correction  of  some  seeming  inequalities  in  the  application  and working  of  the  law,  and  the  removal  of  claimed doubts as to its application, to which I solicit your considerate attention. By  the  report of  the commissioner of  taxes, we  learn  that statistical  inquiry, under  the provisions of act No. 2 of 1884, fixes the average rate of property taxation in the state in 1884 at about one hundred and twenty-three cents  on  the  dollar  of  the  grand  list  of  that  year,  and  at  about  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  cents  for  the  year 1885.  This information should prompt watchfulness and economy. REPORT OF THE INSPECTOR OF FINANCE. Among other important duties imposed upon the inspector of finance is that of examining and making report to  the  general  assembly  as  to  the  condition  of  the  savings  banks  and  trust  companies  in  the  state.    This  alone makes this office one of grave importance to the people.  In 1860  the various  savings banks of  the  state held deposits  to  the  amount of  about one million dollars;  the amount  now  held  (June  30,  1886,)  including  deposits  in  trust  companies  is  fourteen million,  two  hundred  fifty-three  thousand,  nine  hundred  sixty-three  dollars  and  forty-seven  cents,  and  the  number  of  depositors  (at  same date)  is 49,453.   To a very  large extent,  these deposits are  the savings – and  in many cases  the  little all – of  the poor,  the  widows  and  orphans  of  the  state,  and  it  is  your  duty  to  encircle  them  with  every  safeguard  and  to protect them with every reasonable limitation and restriction as to investment.  These deposits are in the highest sense trust funds, of which the directors, trustees and managers of these savings institutions are but trustees.  In the matter  of  the management  and  investment  of  these  funds,  every other  consideration  should be  secondary  to and  yield  to  that  of  safety.    Any  departure  from  this  rule  is  highly  censurable.    And  bearing  on  this  subject,  I quote  from  the  concise  and  able  report  of  the  inspector,  with  my  unqualified  approval.    He  says:  -  “The  great underlying principle which should, it seems to me, govern the management of trust funds – and savings deposits are  nothing  more  nor  less  than  trust  funds  –  is  that  safety  should  be  the  first  and  strongest  consideration actuating  and  governing  trustees.”  “Savings  banks  were  instituted  for  the  purpose  of  affording  an  absolutely safe place for the deposit of the small earnings of widows, minors and others, who are not sufficiently versed in matters of  finance  to care  for  their own savings.   And  this purpose  is wickedly perverted when  trustees become ambitious  to  build  up  great  institutions  by  paying  large  dividends  and  thereby  attracting  the  capital  of  the wealthy.” These  plain  and well-pointed  remarks  of  the  inspector  find  application  and meaning  in what  is  reported  by him as to investment of these funds in “Western farm mortgages.”  The importance of the subject, and the desire on my part  that  the views and recommendations of  the  inspector be more widely disseminated  lead me  to quote further  from  his  report.    He  says:–  “Strictly  choice  municipal  bonds,  a  class  of  investments  upon  which  our savings  banks  have  heretofore  largely  relied,  now  rarely  pay  more  than  four  per  cent  net,  and  many  of  our savings  bank  managers  have  deemed  it  wise  to  discard  largely  this  class  of  securities  and  to  correspondingly increase their investments in Western farm mortgages, which pay a much larger rate of interest. I  call  your  attention  to  the  recommendation  of  the  inspector  that  the  present  limit  (58  1-3  per  cent)  within which  savings deposits may be  invested  in Western mortgages, be  reduced  to  forty per cent.    I  recommend  that the law limiting and restricting the investment of deposits be so amended as to meet the recommendations of the inspector.   Some of  the present  restrictions  are  seemingly unjust, or  at  least  unwise.   The well  known  financial ability  and  standing  of  the  inspector,  and  his  large  experience,  are  I  am  sure,  quite  sufficient  to  secure  your earnest  attention  to  his  report.   His  evident  solicitude  –  not  to  say  anxiety  –  is  fully  accounted  for  by  a  careful study of his report. In  the  report  of  the  treasurer  you will  find  an  itemized  statement  of  the  several  trust  funds  in  his  hands  for which  the  state  is  accountable,  and  the  official  certificates  of  the  auditor  of  accounts  and  inspector  of  finance that they have examined these funds and found the same correctly set forth in said statement of the treasurer.   EDUCATION. Few,  if  any,  subjects  are  equal  to  this  in  importance,  and  I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  say  that  no  subject  has received more thought and attention from the general assembly and also from the thoughtful people of the state.  And  I  venture  to  assert  that  it  has  been  a  long  time,  if  ever,  since  there was more  thought  given  to  the  subject than  at  the  present  time,  and  it  is  probable  there  has  never  been  a  period  when  there  was  more,  if  as  much, anxiety  and  solicitude  concerning  it  as  now.    The  importance  attached  to  the  subject  is  easy  to  understand,  as intelligence of  the masses  is absolutely essential  to  the prosperity and existence of our  form of government and its free institutions.  But why the present unusual interest, anxiety and solicitude?  The answer to this enquiry is found  in  an  assertion  or  proposition  not  pleasant  to  entertain  or  contemplate,  yet  forced  upon  us  by  seemingly unquestioned  and  unquestionable  facts  –  an  assertion  promulgated  by  my  predecessors  and  also  by  the constituted  heads  of  the  educational  departments  of  the  state,  both  past  and  present,  and  corroborated  by  the national  census  bureau.    It  is,  that  the  people  of  our  commonwealth  are  increasing  in  illiteracy  –  that  she  is losing  rank with,  and  falling  behind,  her  sister  state  in  that  education  and  intelligence  that  can  come  only  from the  common  or  public  schools.   The proposition  is  as unwelcome  as  it  is  alarming,  and  I would gladly  refute  it could I see my way clear to maintain my position. Assuming that this is correct, I am led to repeat the inquiry of my earnest and accomplished predecessor, ex-Governor  Pingree:  “Wherefore  are  we  being  left  behind?”    This  is  certainly  a  most  important  inquiry,  and  I address  it  to you  in  all possible  earnestness,  trusting you may be  able, not only  to  answer  it, but  to  find  a  cure, and by early legislative action make vigorous application of it, even though it should involve radical changes in our  educational  system.    Pursuing  the  subject,  I  put  the  further  inquiry:   Has  there  been  in  the  past,  or  is  there now  such  a  want  of  proper  pecuniary  support  and  encouragement  by  the  state  for  the  common  schools  as  to account for the trouble?  If so, and you should unlock the treasury and provide the proper aid, it would have my approval; but I understand the reverse to be true.  The trouble is evidently not here. Looking  further,  let  me  ask  you  as  to  the  condition  and  efficiency  of  the  colleges,  academies,  normal schools,  high  and  graded  schools,  and  the  larger  and  more  central  of  the  district  schools  of  the  state.    My observation  and  information  is  that  these  as  a  whole  compare  favorably  with  like  institutions  of  learning elsewhere  and  have  a  corps  of  instructors,  teachers  and managers  as  competent,  efficient  and well  equipped  as any.  This being so, we must look further for the difficulty. Outside  of  the  schools  particularized  are  about  sixty  thousand  of  the  school  children  of  the  state,  exclusive of  those who attend private schools – or about  three-fourths of  the whole number of scholars attending any and all schools.  It is said, and I do not understand that it is questioned to any considerable extent, that the trouble is in  the  smaller  schools,  schools  more  or  less  remote  from  the  villages  and  central  schools.    Having  located  the trouble,  (if  I  am  correct  in  my  information  and  conclusion)  you  can  more  readily  search  out  the  disease  and apply a cure, and this is your special province. In pursuing your investigation, you will doubtless find that the average number of scholars in these outlying districts  does  not  exceed  one-half  that  of  thirty  or  fifty  years  ago,  the  territorial  dimensions  of  the  districts remaining substantially the same.  The assertion or proposition that a small school fails to keep alive or awaken the  interest  of  the  pupil  and  is  accompanied  by  the  comparative  indifference  of  the  community  where  such school  is  located,  will  very  generally,  I  am  sure,  receive  your  assent.    We  are  told  by  the  superintendent  of education in his report, that there are in the state one hundred and three schools with not over six scholars each, and  four  hundred  and  seventy  having more  than  six  and  less  than  twelve.   After  a  careful  consideration  of  this subject,  I  am  compelled  to  conclude  that  the  trouble  mainly  lies  in  these  small  schools;  that,  so  long  as  old district  lines  are held  too  sacred  to be disturbed,  the  trouble must,  form  necessity,  not  only  remain with  us,  but  increase rather than diminish.  And, notwithstanding the adverse expression of the voters of the several towns, I should  fall  short  of  a  full  performance  of  what  I  conceive  to  be  my  duty,  should  I  omit  to  say  that  it  is  my earnest conviction that adequate and lasting relief can come only by an adoption of the “town system,” or some other  system  by which  the  same  end  can  be  accomplished  or  arrived  at.    I  am  not,  however, wedded  to  this  or any other particular system, but I earnestly submit that the importance of the subject is quite enough to call forth your best efforts and unbiased action in search of a remedy and in providing for an application of it. I  solicit  your  attention  to  the  report  of  your  devoted  and  painstaking  superintendent  of  education.    The opinions, conclusions and recommendations of one so well versed  in  the subject, and who has given  it so much patient  study  and  attention  should  be  of  great  weight.    If,  in  treating  upon  this  subject  at  such  length,  I  have trenched  upon  your  province,  or  invaded  the  field  of  argument,  the  importance  of  the  subject  and  my  anxiety concerning it must be my excuse. STATE BENEFICIARIES. This subject and the expense of the state having reference to its, is treated at length by my predecessor in his retiring  message,  and  I  therefore  only  call  your  attention  to  it.    It  has  become  the  fixed  policy  of  the  state  to make  ample  provision  for  the  education  of  its  deaf mutes, blind  and  feeble-minded.   And  I doubt not  it will be your pleasure  to continue  this policy and make  such provision  for carrying  it out, as will enable all who should to share it. STATE PRISON. The report of the directors and superintendent shows a prosperous and harmonious condition of things at the prison, and it does not appear that any unusual event has transpired there within the period covered by it. As  to  the  needs  of  the  institution,  beyond  current  expensed,  I  cannot  do  better  by  way  of  calling  them  to your attention than to here quote from the directors’ report, wherein they say; “We cannot too strongly urge the construction of iron stairs too; and walks around the cells, to take the place of  the  old  worn-out  wooden  ones.    This  construction  would  render  the  prison  safer  from  fire,”  etc.    And  they also suggest, in the way of a desired improvement, the enlarging of the front windows of the prison.  The  well-known  conservative  character,  and  safe,  business  qualifications  and  habits  of  the  directors  give unusual value  to  their  recommendations and suggestions.   They have my concurrence, and will I  trust, received careful  consideration  from  you.    If  repaired  and  improved  as  suggested,  we  are  assured  by  the  report  of  the directors  that  the  prison  will  not  suffer  by  comparison  with  any  of  its  size  in  New  England.    I  learn  from  the directors  that  the  prison  has  sufficient  capacity  to  comfortably  accommodate  150  inmates,  and  the superintendent’s report shows that the present number, (July 31, 1886) is 88, indicating that there is much spare room in the prison – a condition of things not likely to lamented. HOUSE OF CORRECTION. This  institution  has  now  been  in  operation  about  eight  years,  and,  as  was  said  by  my  predecessor  in  his incoming  message,  “is  universally  admitted  to  be  a  success  of  its  kind,”  and  from  the  report  of  the  directors, which will  be  before  you,  the  institution  is  seen  to  be  popular  as well  as  successful;  and  from  the  same  source comes the gratifying intelligence that the institution has no special needs. You will, however,  I am  sure, agree with me  that  this  institution  should have attention and  relief, as we are told  by  the  director  that  it  is  burdened  with  a  class  of  prisoners  that,  by  the  construction  of  its  buildings  as  to safety,  it was  not  designed  to  accommodate;  and  they  add,  “convicts  sentenced  for  high  crimes  and  long  terms are  not  as  secure  as  at  the  state  prison,  and  no  better  cared  for.”  It  also  appears  that with  a  capacity  of  only  76 cells  for males,  it has at  times been crowded with 120 male prisoners. And  further,  in  their  report,  the directors say “We receive more for labor at the state prison, and the work is much neater and the prisoners more secure,” and ask that you prescribe a remedy. I  invite  your  attention  to  this matter,  confidently  believing  that  you  can  and will  by  appropriate  legislation relieve  the  institution of  its burdens  and difficulties,  and  at  the  same  time provide greater  security  for  the more hardened criminals with pecuniary advantage to the state. THE REFORM SCHOOL. The  object  and  purpose  of  this  institution  is  indicated  by  its  name  and  too  well  understood  to  call  for  any elaboration.  From  the  nature  of  things,  its  work  and  the  occasion  for  its  existence  may  be  considered  to  be perpetual. The frailties and forwardness of humanity furnish  its patrons, and  the hopeful, generous  impulse of a Christian  people  asks  its  intervention  and  aid  in  wresting  and  saving  from  a  life  of  degradation  and  crime  the waifs  and  the  unfortunate,  homeless  and  criminally  inclined  children  of  the  state.  As  the  result  of  a  long  and watchful  official  connection  with  the  school,  I  entertain  no  doubt  that  the  hopes  and  expectations  of  the  most sanguine  of  the  originators  and  supporters  of  the  school  have  been,  and  are  being,  more  than  realized,  in  the good  work  accomplished.    For  the  successful  and  beneficent  results,  very  much  credit  is  due  to  the  faithful Christian  labor  and  influence  of Mr.  and Mrs. Fairbank,  for  a  long  time  and  until  lately  the  superintendent  and matron  of  the  school.    I  note  with  pleasure  and  approval  the  remarks  of  Governor  Pingree  in  his  retiring message  as  to Mr.  and Mrs.  Fairbank.    They  are    richly  entitled  to,  and  I  doubt  not will  have,  the  tanks  of  the state for their long and faithful service; and its good wishes in their enlarged field of usefulness in a like relation to a similar institution in a sister state. I bespeak for the institution the continued ungrudging and liberal support and encouragement of the state. The  state  Is  to  be  congratulated  upon  the  fact  that  it  has  in  the  state  prison,  house  of  correction  and  reform school,  for  superintendents  and  subordinate  officers,  men  and  women  excellently  adapted  to  their  work  and devoted to its best interests. INSANE ASYLUM. The  condition  of  the  insane  persons  of  the  state  at  the  asylum,  the  work  being  done  at  the  asylum,  the condition,  character  and management  of  the  institution,  also well  stated  and  set  forth  in  the  excellent  report  of the supervisors of  the  insane,  that a perusal of  it will be quite sufficient  to enable you  to  legislate properly as  to any and all matters connected with this subject requiring your attention. I  invite  your  considerate  attention  to  this  subject,  and  to  the  report  of  the  supervisors.    The  insane  are  the unfortunate  wards  of  the  state.    In  the  treatment  of  them  and  providing  for  them  there  should  be  no  such uncertain or insufficient action as to even tend to the foundation of a charge of neglect. The supervisors in their report  treat  at  length  on  the  subject  of  “The  criminal  and  convict  insane,”  and  recommend  that  the  state make provision for them away from the asylum, and give such reasons as to make it seem a matter of necessity to take action  in  the  direction  pointed  out  in  the  report.  You  will,  I  doubt  not,  give  the  subject  such  attention  as  it demands. STATE LIBRARY. To  provide  for  a  “need  that  had  become  a  positive  necessity,”  the  legislature  of  1884  passed  act  No.  227, and  thereby  for  the erection of a “building  for  the use of a  state  library, and other  like purposes,” and created a commission to carry out the will of the state in that behalf.   From the report of that commission and the retiring message  of  Governor  Pingree,  we  learn  that  the  undertaking  has  been  substantially  accomplished.    Modesty forbids  me  to  say  anything  characterizing  the  work  of  the  commission.    The  result  of  their  labor  and  of  the appropriation  of  the  state  is  before  you,  and will  doubtless  receive  your  inspection  and  attention.    I  invite  your attention to the report of the commission, which will be before you.   It will be in order and incumbent upon you to provide for properly furnishing the building. INTEMPERANCE. It has  for more  than  thirty years been  the policy of our common wealth, as expressed  through  its  legislature by very many acts, both origina1 and amendatory,  to prohibit  the sale of  intoxicating  liquors for beverage. And this  has  been,  and  now  is,  supplemented  by  the  earnest  prayers  and  never-tiring  efforts  and  endeavors  of  very many of our best  and most  conscientious people of both  sexes  and of  every creed and condition. That  such has been  the  policy  of  the  state  and  the  past  and  present  aim  and  endeavor  of  so  many  good  people  needs  no apology nor explanation. The wrecks of naturally noble manhood and womanhood made by the excessive use of intoxicating liquor, the vice, crime, degradation, tears and sorrow directly traceable to the same cause, are more than  sufficient  to  justify  appeal  to  the,  strong  arm  of  rigorous  law  for  help,  and  to  call  forth  the  utmost  and constant  efforts  of  individuals  to  check,  and  so  far  as  may  be  possible,  to  stop  the  fearful  ravages  of  this monstrous evil. That the law fails to accomplish all that was expected and hoped by the sanguine promoters of it will hardly be  questioned  by  any. But,  that  it  has  had,  and  now  has,  the  effect  to  prevent  or  at  least  to  correct  the  evil  in  a large  measure  outside  of  the  centers  of  our  larger  towns  and  villages,  and  to  greatly  regulate  and  control  it generally,  I  fully  believe.  That  the  laws  of  the  state  on  this  subject  are  in  many  places  openly  violated  and flagrantly disregarded  is an open  secret; and  that  in  some  instances—too numerous  to be  contemplated without concern—those  upon  whom  has  been,  or  is  imposed  the  sworn  duty  of  its  faithful  execution,  are  its  violators, and  are  blind  or  indifferent  to  its  violation  by  others,  is  also  but  too  well  known.  This  is  indeed  a  sad commentary  upon  the  law  and  subject  under  consideration,  and  demoralizing  to  the  citizens  generally,  as tending to lessen proper regard, if not to create contempt, for all laws. By  some  it  is  claimed  that  the  penalties  provided  for  the  violation  of  the  law  are  too  severe;  by  others  that they are not severe enough; by others, that the administration and execution of the law is lax; and by others, that the  trouble  lies  in  the  subject,  and  that  the  law  does  not  have  the  support  and  approval  (as  a  prohibitory measure) of the people. I do not assume to myself that degree of wisdom requisite to solve these questions, or to point  the  way  to  a  solution  of  them,  further  than  to  call  your  attention  and  consideration  to  the  distance,  the shifting,  the maneuvering,  the display of  ingenuity and  the escapes between a first and second conviction under the  law and,  to  say,  if  it  is  the  sentiment of  the people at  large,  that  this  law, or  the  laws on  this subject, should be treated and made to operate as a prohibitory law in fact as well as in name, rather than to operate as a license law,  the  end  desired  would  be  nearer  reached  by  so  amending  the  law  that  the  penalty  provided  for  a  first conviction should include a short term of imprisonment as well as a fine. There  is no occasion  for apology  for calling your attention  to  this  that  subject at  such  length.  Its paramount importance cannot, be over  stated; and  there  is no  subject about which  the  thoughts of’  the people  are  so much exercised,  and  upon  which  so  much  depends  the  public  weal,  or  which  will  more  demand  your  attention  and consideration, during the session. The  treatment  of  this  subject  is  especially within  your  province,  and  any  proper  legislation  in  the  direction of curing or abating the evil of intemperance will have my personal approval and official sanction. AGRICULTURE. It  has  well  been  said  that  upon  this  interest  all  others  largely  depend.  And,  with  the  tact  before  me  that  a very large portion of this presence have been life students in the school of practical husbandry, I may, I assume, be  justly  excused  from  advising  or  even  suggesting,  what  ought,  or  what  ought  not,  to  be  done  for  the advancement of this subject. While  it  is  true,  as  to  this  state  at  least,  that  upon  this  all  other  interests  and  industries  largely  depend,  it  is true,  as  a  general  proposition,  that whatever  tends  to  truly  and  permanently  aid  or  advance  the  one will  have  a prosperous  effect  upon  the  others.  And  while  the  agricultural  interests  of  the  state  have  many  and  varied  just demands  upon  you,  by  way  of  providing  and  disseminating  instruction  and  information,  by  furnishing  various aids to progress and advancement, and by removing and preventing the growth of obstacles and hindrances—all of  which  I  trust  will  be  acceded  to  and  provided  for—yet  the  greatest  grievances  can  be  redressed  and  the heaviest burdens removed only by national legislation. And this applies to other industries as well as to this, and naturally suggests the propriety of a legislative reminder and appeal to our congressional delegates to strengthen their hands and increase or encourage their zeal in their efforts to secure relief through the enactment of what is known  as  the  interstate  commerce  bill,  and  in  their  resistance  to  the  further modification  or  repeal  of  the  tariff laws, by which several of the industries of the state have already suffered severely, and by which their existence is now jeopardized. Although commented upon elsewhere,  I desire here  to call your attention  to  the  report of  the  trustees of  the state agricultural college, and especially to the subject of providing for this department of the state university an experiment  station.  Such  a  department  properly  equipped  and  liberally  sustained  would,  if  I  judge  correctly, meet  and  provide  for  a want  of  long  standing  and  of  vital  consequence  to  the  agricultural  interests  of  the  state. The  tillers  of  the  soil  in  the  East,  in  their  competitive  race  with  those  of  the West,  in  their  efforts  to  live  and thrive  are  at  a great disadvantage  in many  respects  and’ may well  call  to  their  aid  the  service  of  intelligent  and scientific experiments. I feel assured that you will find the report referred to of great interest. BOARD OF AGRICULTURE. The  report  of  the  board  of  agriculture  has  not  come  to  my  hand  and  therefore  I  am  unable  to  speak  of  its work.  I  am  not  aware what,  if  any,  legislation  is  desired  or  desirable  in  the way  of  continuing  the work  of  the board,  or  of  giving  it  greater  efficiency.  The  importance  of  the  matters  it  has  in  charge,  and  is  intended  to promote,  is  so vital  that you cannot  fail  to give  its consideration a prominent place.  I ask your careful  attention to  the  suggestions  of Governor  Pingree  on  this  subject. His  familiarity with  the  doings  of  the  board  during  his term of office and  the manifest  interest he has  in  the  subject make his  retiring words of  such value as  to  secure from you that attention I have asked you to give to it.  FISHERIES. Impressed as I am that the propagation and protection of fish is a subject of great and growing importance to the  people  of  the  state,  and  that  it  is  an  interest  deserving  and  requiring  legislative  aid  and  protection,  I confidently  call  your  attention  to  it  trusting  you  will  give  it  such  fostering  care  and  oversight  as  will  best promote the public good. HIGHWAYS. This  as  a  subject of  such general  interest  that  I  feel more  than warranted  in  calling your  attention  to  it. The means  provided  for  maintaining  and  repairing  the  highways  of  the  state  are  liberal,  and  if  properly  expended, would undoubtedly be ample. I venture  to say  that greater abuses and short have existed, been practiced, and  in a  measure  submitted  to,  in  connection  with  this  department  of  public  duty  than  of  any  other.  This  was  the natural,  and  perhaps  unavoidable,  result  of  the  so-called  labor  tax  practice—an  easy  way  to  pay  or  avoid payment  of  the  tax,  but  grossly  inadequate  in  results.  The  public  generally  are  to  be  congratulated  that  this inadequate way of performing a public duty has no longer the sanction of law. I am pleased to be able to say as a  result  of  observation,  extended  inquiry  and  common  report,  that  the  present  condition  of  the  high  ways throughout the state is us a whole, very satisfactory, except as shown by very general complaint that the duty of erecting  or  constructing  barriers  or  safeguards  at  points  and  places  of  special  danger  to  travelers  is  very generally disregarded. Should your understanding of the matter be in accord with this alleged fact, I suggest the propriety  of  so  amending  the  law  in  that  respect  as  to  impose  a  liability  for  damages  upon  towns,  as  is  now provided  for  insufficient  bridges,  culverts  and  sluices.  As  was  said  by  one  of  my  predecessors—ex-Governor Farnham—“towns should be required to keep their highways in a safe condition.” My  attention  has  been  called  to  the  proposition  to  so  amend  the  laws  as  to  provide  (as  was  formerly  the ease)  that  towns  should  be  liable  in  damages  to  part  injured  or  damaged  by  reason  of  any  insufficiency  of highways,  but  I  am  not  prepared  to  say  that  this  would  be  wise  legislation,  and  cannot,  therefore,  advise  that towns  should  be  further  liable  than  under  the  present  law,  except  as  contingently  expressed  above.  Frequent changes in general laws should not be encouraged.  In  the  further  consideration  of  this  subject,  I  call  your  attention  to  act  No.  11  of  the  session  laws  of  1884, entitled  “an  act  relating  to  highways  and  bridges.”  After  having  considerable  familiarity,  professionally  and officially,  with  this  act  and  its  workings  in  its  present  form,  I  am  led  to  characterize  it  as  an  instance  of  loose legislation on an important and meritorious subject. If it is to remain in its present unguarded form, it might well be commented upon and considered under the head of “state expenses,” and its title changed to that of “an act to test the capacity of the state treasury.” The end sought by the framers and promoters of the act in question was, I have  no  doubt,  a  just  one,  the  object  being  to  equalize  the  important  and  imperative  public  burden  of  building and maintaining high ways. Excepting a comparatively few towns. I am convinced that there is no such unequal burden as to justify a call for state aid. The temptation offered to towns by the unguarded provisions of this act, to bring themselves within its terms is very great, and it is, I submit, in its present form liable to so much abuse as to demand amendment or, failing in that, repeal. In this connection, I desire to call your attention to what I believe to be a fact, that there is in the state a class of  so-called  mountain  towns,  through  which  pass  main  highways,  used  largely  by,  and  indispensable  for, through  travel,  not  unfrequently  mail  routes,  and  expensive  to  keep  in  repair.    Many  of  these  towns  are overburdened  and  unjustly  so  in  keeping  these  highways  in  the  possible  and  safe  condition  demanded  by  the public  and  required  by  law.    Such  towns  usually  have  but  a  small  grand  list,  their  land  being  of  little  value compared with  other  towns,  and  their  people  poor  in  purse.  I  submit  that  for  such  or  similar  instances  of  plain and  unquestionable  inequality  of  this  public  burden  as  to  such  through  lines  of  travel,  remedial  legislation, properly guarded, should be had. THE MILITIA. The  National  Guard  of  Vermont  consist  of  one  regiment  of  infantry—ten  companies—531  officers  and enlisted men and one separate or detached company of infantry at Newport, of 51 officers and enlisted men one light  battery—four  twelve  pounder  Napoleon  or  brass  guns—located  at  Brattleboro,  and  when  full  numbering 80  officers  and  men;  and  one  “section  of  battery  “—two  six-pounder  brass  guns—located  at  Northfield  and organized from the students at Norwich University. To be of  any practical  efficient use,  the  force  cannot well be  less.  I  am however, unable  to  concur with  the adjutant and inspector-general in his recommendation that it be increased, but the views of General Peck on this subject,  expressed  in  his  report,  merit  your  careful  consideration,  and  their  source  should  give  them  great weight. The  character  and  efficiency  of  the  National  Guard  is  now  excellent  and  reflects  great  credit  upon  both officers  and men,  and  they  are  entitled  to,  and  should  have,  our  thanks  for  so  fully  and  creditably meeting  that constitutional declaration that “a well-regulated militia is necessary to the security of a free state.” Efficiency of the guard is secured and maintained by the expenditure of much time, and, in the aggregate, of a large pecuniary outlay by both officers and men, not reimbursed by the state. And wanting in efficiency in any large  degree,  the  existence  of  a militia  is would  be  of more  than  doubtful  expediency  and  its  expense  a waste. The militia is expected and required to be always ready to serve the state, and to respond with alacrity to the call of  the commander-in-chief and  is  the chief and  final  reliance of  the  state  in  times of public peril, when  the arm of the civil authority is paralyzed or over come by unusual emergencies in state or nation. That they may not be needed  is  the  earnest  wish  of  all  that  they  may  never  be  wanting  in  disposition  to  respond,  in  personal efficiency, or in serviceable arms and suitable equipment, is equally desirable and important.  We  are  told  that,  while  the  personnel  and  the  drill  of  the  guard  is  excellent,  its  arms  are  substantially worthless,  and  I  submit  if  they  are  as  worthless  as  represented,  they  would  in  time  of  need  and  peril  be  more dangerous  to  the  command  than  to  the  opposing  force  and  it  is  said  that,  in  other minor  respects,  they  are  very poorly  equipped.  This  should  have  prompt  attention.  The  arm  that  the  soldier  is  required  to  bear  is  either  his pride or his shame, as  it  is serviceable and satisfactory, or otherwise. And  I  recommend  that provision be made for such change or renewal of the arms and equipment of the guard as to secure the highest degree of efficiency, and such as will satisfy and promote the commendable pride of our citizen soldiers. The  reports  of  the  adjutant  and  inspector-general  and  quarter-master-general  will  be  before  you,  in  which many minor matters  in  reference  to  the militia are  set  forth and commented upon  in detail. These  reports merit, and  I  trust will have, your attention.  in  these  reports,  the Light Battery  is  referred  to and denominated “Fuller’s Battery,”  not  particularly  because  it  is  commanded  by  Captain  Fuller,  but  chiefly  and  properly  because  the efficiency  of  the  organization  is  largely  due  to  the  intelligent  attention  and  generosity  of  Captain  Fuller.  This has been long continued, unostentatious and unselfish and deserves this public official recognition. UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT AND STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. The University of Vermont, bearing as it does the name of our commonwealth, and, without disparaging any other,  being  the  leading  institution  of  learning  in  the  state,  as  well  as  for  other  good  and  substantial  reasons, must and should be  the subject of  lively  interest  to  the  thoughtful people of  the state and any needed aid would in my opinion be well directed and deserved, if bestowed upon it. The  real and abiding prosperity of a state or community can be correctly measured by  its means, provisions and  interest  for and  in  the  cause of  education  and  intelligence.  I am happy  to  report  that  the university  is  in  the enjoyment  of  liberal  patronage  and  is  prosperous.  It  has,  as  you  know,  been  richly  remembered  in  the  past  by the  generosity  of  the  late  John P. Howard  and  of Mr. Frederick Billings,  by which  the  state  at  large,  as well  as the  institution, has been greatly benefited. Too much  commendation  and gratitude  cannot well be bestowed  for these acts of public generosity in the cause of refined and higher education. But, with  these  lavish  gifts  and  the  expenditure  of  them  as  directed  by  the  donors  and  the  construction  and completion of the work to which they were especially directed, comes to the university new and enlarged duties, increased  and  increasing  expenses.  Several  of  my  honored  predecessors  have  in  their  messages  to  the  general assembly  made  eloquent  appeal  and  earnest  recommendation  that  the  state  should  render  to  the  university pecuniary  assistance  to  encourage  and  strengthen  its  hands  in  the  noble  work  of  human  advancement.  I  am pleased to call your attention to these appeals and recommendations, with my approval. The cause of the higher education  would  be  thereby  aided  and  encouraged,  and  also  of  education  generally.  As  has  been  well  said  by one of the most earnest and intelligent friends and supporters of the common schools of the state, “Our common or public school system can be lifted from above more effectually than it can be pried up from below.” Under  the  head  of  “state  scholarships,”  the  trustees  in  their  report  point  the  way  to  a mode  or method  that might  well  be  adopted  by  the  state  to  assist  and  advance  the  interests  of  the  university,  and  at  the  same  time “furnish assistance to gifted and ambitious young men of limited means.” These suggestions are worthy of your earnest consideration. The  State  Agricultural  College  is  a  part  of  the  University  of  Vermont  and  made  so  by  an  act  of  the legislature of  this  state,  approved November  9,  1865.  It  is  sustained  by  the  income  of  a  fund  given  to  the State of  Vermont  by  the  general  government,  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  congress,  approved  July  2,  1862.  And  this  act provides  that  the  income  of  this  fund  shall  be  used  for  the  support  of  at  least  one  college,  “where  the  leading object  shall  be, without  excluding  other  scientific  and,  classical  studies,  and  including military  tactics,  to  teach such branches of  learning as are related  to agriculture and  the mechanic arts,  in such manner as  the  legislatures may respectively prescribe in order to promote the’ liberal and practical education of the industrial classes in the several pursuits and professions in life.” As  bearing  more  particularly  on  this  department  of  the  university,  I  solicit  your  careful  attention,  to  that portion  of  the  report  of  the  trustees  under  the  bead  of  “Professor  of  agriculture”  and  “The  farmer’s  class”  and also  to  that  portion  of  their  report  that  consists  of  a  statement  by  Prof.  W.  W.  Cooke  as  to  the  work  in  this department. The  report as a whole  is  replete with matters of more  than usual  interest, and  I bespeak  for  it more attention  than  is  usually  bestowed  upon  official  reports.  I  have  always  referred  to  the  subject  of  an  experiment station,  a  subject dwelt upon by  the  trustees  in  their  report. To  the  end  that  this  subject may have due  attention and consideration, I beg your indulgence in again soliciting your attention to it and also to the entire report. The terms of office of Hon Justin S. Morrill, Hon. E. P. Walton and Henry James, M.D., of the trustees, will expire on November 15, 1887, and it will be incumbent upon you to elect their successors. RAILROAD COMMISSIONER. In  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  law,  the  railroad  commissioner  has  made  his  report,  and  I  invite your  careful  inspection  of  it  for  the  ascertainment  of  many  details  pertaining  to  one  of  the  leading  and important—and in some respect, the most important—interest of the state.  As  part  of  his  report,  the  commissioner  says,  “In  my  judgment  some  additional  legislation  is  required  to order  to  make  the  office  or  the  railroad  commissioner  of  practical  use  to  the  public;”—implying,  at  least,  that this  office,  under  existing  laws,  is  of  no  practical  service  to  the  public.  This  conclusion  is  doubtless  in  accord with  the popular  sentiment on  the  subject but  I am unable  to  fully adopt  the proposition. The  report of our able commissioner is in my opinion of great value, and this office has secured it to you. This much, at least, has been gained by and through the office. Under  existing  laws  prescribing  the  duty  of  the  commissioner  he  is  required  to  “report  what  further  legal provision should in his opinion be adopted in relation to railroads.” in the performance of his duty in this behalf, the  commissioner  makes  several  important  suggestions,  which  may  be  properly  treated  as  recommendations, and  in view of  their official  source  they  are  entitled  to great weight,  and merit,  and  I doubt not will have, your earnest consideration. In connection with, and as a part of this subject, I call your attention to the not unvexed one of RAILROAD LEGISLATION. There has been much legislation in reference to or connected with this subject of railroads, mostly, however, I  venture  to  say,  in  aid  or  protection  of  them,  yet  in  the main,  necessary, wholesome  and  just.  The  idea  that  at this  time  there  is  occasion  for  further  legislation,  on  the  subject,  and  that,  too,  in  the  interest  of  the  public, prevails  very  generally. And  by  consulting  the  report  of  the  commissioner,  you will  notice  that  his  suggestions or  recommendations  are numerous  and  important. This  report  did  not  come  to me  until  very  late;  consequently my  opportunity  for  consideration  of  it  has  been  quite  insufficient  to  enable  me  to  do  more  than  call  your attention to it, and to impress upon you its importance. Should you so legislate as to meet the recommendations of  the  commissioner  you  will,  in  my  opinion,  accomplish  much  towards  meeting  the  proper  demands  of  the public.  These recommendations have my approval.  But it is said that further legislation on this subject cannot be effective save by creating a RAILROAD COMMISSION. and  investing  it  with  enlarged  powers  and  authority  over  railroad  affairs,  even  to  the  extent  of  fixing  and regulating the toll or rate of transportation. And I believe that the object and ends of further desirable legislation can  be  jest  secured  through  a  commission,  and  that  the  existence  of  a  commission  invested  with  such  powers and  authority  as  are  given  to  like boards  in  several of  the  states  – Massachusetts  and New York  for  instance—would  go  far  towards  curing  or  removing  a  real  or  fancied  grievances..  And  experience  in  other  states  has demonstrated  that where competent commissioners, properly empowered, have made examination as  to alleged grievances,  and  upon  finding  them  real  and  well-founded,  have  made  such  recommendations  to  the  railroads complained  of  as  the  board  deemed  called  for,  there  has  been,  with  rare  exceptions,  a  prompt  and  ready compliance  with  the  recommendations  of  the  board,  and  this  too,  where  the  board  is  powerless  to  enforce  its recommendations. The  commission,  if  one  should  be  created  by  your  legislative  action,  should  doubtless  be  empowered  and required  to  report  to  future  legislatures, as  to all complaints  received,  examinations  and  recommendations by  it made, and also what, if any, further legislation is required. Another  question  about  which  there  is  some  diversity  of  opinion,  is:  Should  the  commission  have  power given  it  to  apply  to  the  courts  for  the  enforcement  of  its  recommendations?  In  my  opinion  such  power  should not be given without providing that the court applied to shall not enforce such recommendations, unless, or only so  far as  it  (the court)  shall  find  them  just and  reasonable. That  the  legislature has power  in  the premises  to  the extent suggested I have no doubt, but this alone is no reason for exercising it. While  I  believe  that  the  interests  of  the  public  require  legislative  action  in  the  direction  above  suggested,  I feel certain that many of the honest grievances of the people against our railroads and their management are not well  founded,  and  that  some of  the most  important of  their  complaints  cannot be  successfully  reached  short of, or  without,  national  legislation,  such  as  was  sought  through  the  interstate  commerce  bill.  In  confirmation,  I quote  with  pleasure  from  the  message  of  my  accomplished  predecessor,  ex-Governor  Barstow.  He  said  upon this subject: “No board or  legislature can reach outside  the state, and much  that  is wrong  in  these matters  is  the result of  the great national and continental system, controlled by  immense and consolidated wealth, a system  in which Vermont  roads are as a drop  in a bucket, a  link  in a chain.  It  is a power  so great  that  small corporations, like those in Vermont, are forced to join or strengthen it or perish.” Legislation  on  this  subject  by  you  will  be,  I  am  sure,  entered  upon  and  considered  without  any  feeling  of antagonism.  Our railroads are managed and controlled, perhaps without exception, by some of our most public-spirited  citizens,  men  as  zealous  and  earnest  in  whatever  promises  to  be  for  the  good  of  the  state,  as  any,  and who are thoroughly loyal to her every interest. TRUSTEE PROCESS. My attention has been called to act No. 130 of the session laws of 1884, and, in turn, I call your attention to the same; and ask you to consider if the public good does not require the repeal of this act, or such legislation on the subject as will better accord with a liberal and humane disposition toward the debtor class. GETTYSBURGH. The battle of Gettysburgh was fought on the first, second and third days of July, 1863, and it has come to be considered  as  the  pivotal  battle,  of  the  war.  Its  field  was,  as  it  were,  in  front  of  and  at  the  very  portals  of  the nation’s  capital  and  of  the  gates  of  the  large  cities  of  the  North.  The  results  of  this  battle  were  more  than glorious  to  the Union  cause.  The  army  of Northern Virginia  under  Lee was  then  and  there  turned  back,  routed and  defeated,  never  again  to  make  or  undertake  an  aggressive  campaign.  And  in  the  result,  of  that  battle  was buried  the  last  hope  of  the  confederates  of  foreign  intervention;  and  in  the  possible  realization  of  that  hope  lay the greatest danger to the Union. Thence on to Appomattox there was scarcely a doubt as the final result. The Intrepidity, the valor and the blood of the Union army at Gettysburgh went very far towards placing the seal  of  ultimate  success  and  safety  upon  the  national  banner;  and  of  all  that  noble Union  army  of  about  eighty thousand men, none bore a more valiant or significant part than our own bravo boys – three regiments that were in  action,  of  what  was  best  known  as  “Stannard’s  Brigade.” My  words  are  entirely  inadequate  to  fitly  portray their  valor  then  and  there  displayed,  and  I  need  not  here  undertake  to  tell  you  further  of  the  potency  and importance  of  their  action.  It  will  suffice  for  me  to  say  that  historians  and  accredited  writers  give  great prominence and credit  to  the part  taken by “Stannard’s Brigade.” Many of our sister  states have erected on  this field  of  blood monuments  to mark  the  spot or place  and  to  commemorate  the valor of  their  sons.  I  am  credibly informed  that  there  now  are  on  this  field  nearly  or  quite  a  hundred  monuments  and  tablets.    In  April  last,  the State  of  Ohio  by  an  act  of  its  general  assembly  authorized  and  made  provision  for  the  “erection  of  suitable memorials  and  monuments  commemorative  of  the  deeds,  of  the  soldiers  from  Ohio  who  fought  on  this  battle field,”  at  an  expense  of  about  $25,000.    And  inquiry  has  been  made  from  within  and  without  the  state  why Vermont has not and does not there erect such monuments. The  noble  Stannard who  there won  imperishable  honors  as  the  commander  of  the  organization,  and  two  of the  three  regimental commanders, Colonels Randall and Nichols, have, as you know been finally mustered out, and only Colonel W. G. Veazey remains of the commanding officers to point out the spot and tell the story. I recommend that liberal provision be made for the early erection of a suitable monument on the battle field of Gettysburgh to mark the spot where the soldiers of Vermont rendered such signal service to state and nation, that it may not be a matter, of doubt and to commemorate and perpetuate their patriotism and valor. BENNINGTON BATTLE MONUMENT. To avoid repetition, I ask your indulgence and request you to look o the retiring message of my predecessor for a history of  this patriotic undertaking.     Looking  to  this source you will  find,  I assume,  reasons  sufficient  to prompt on your part any proper action that will tend to forward the work and hasten its completion. I am  informed  that a site  for  the proposed monument has been agreed upon and selected by  the association. It  is also  represented  that  in order  that  the work may go on without delay,  further  legislation  is necessary  in  the direction  of  securing  to  the  association  or  to  the  state  a  legal  title  to  such  and  as  may  be  required  for  a  site.  I trust  that  you  will  give  this  matter  such  consideration  as  is  necessary,  and  that  you  will  have  in  mind  the  fact that the patriotism of the state is somewhat involved in this seemingly sluggish enterprise. UNITED STATES SENATOR. It will  be  your  duty,  and  to which  I  invite  your  attention,  to  elect  a United  States  senator  from  this  state  to succeed  the Honorable George F. Edmunds,  the present  incumbent, whose  term of office will expire on  the 4th day March, 1887. The laws of the United States providing for the election of senators require that this election should be made on the second Tuesday of the session.  CONCLUSION. Gentlemen:   In conclusion I am moved  to again  impress upon you  the  importance of  the duties  that devolve upon you as the chosen representatives of the people and to earnestly request you to bear in mind how desirable and  consequential  it  is  that  you  should  as  early  as  possible  enter  upon  the  practical  work  of  the  session. Heretofore  much  complaint  and  many  murmurings  have  been  heard  because  of  frequent  adjournments.  This practice should not be encouraged.  Intended measures of legislative action and consideration should be matured and  presented  as  early  in  the  session  a  possible,  and  be  supplemented  by  as  much  dispatch  of  business  as  is consistent with  that  care  and  caution  necessary  to  secure  correct  and wise  results. This  course  of  action  can  be best  secured  by  giving  to  our  business  here  the  same  industry,  watchfulness  and  faithful  service  and  attention that we give to important affairs at home. } EXECUTIVE CHAMBER, MONTPELIER, VT., OCT. 7, 1886.  EBENEZER J. ORMSBEE.