Inaugural address of  Edward C. Smith  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1898  Thursday, October 6, 1898 Inaugural Address  Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives: It is with a growing sense of the responsibilities and impressed with the importance of this office that I have to-day walked up  the  aisle of  this hall,  subscribed  to  the Constitution,  and  taken  the oath,  thus  following  in  the footsteps  of  those  who  have  gone  before  me,  whose  voices  have  been  heard  from  this  platform  in  defense  of high  principles;  whose  exhortations  have  fired  the  love  and  patriotism  that  have  made  Vermont  what  it  is, whose administrations have invariably been honest and untarnished, and who have in long venerable line passed out of office  either  to other of  life’s duties, or  to higher  responsibilities  in broader  fields, or have  finished  their work  on  this  earth  and  gone  into  that  peace  which  lies  beyond  the  vision  of  mortality,  which  is  the  gladsome reward  of  honesty  and  faithful  service  and  loyalty.  One  might  well  hesitate  on  the  threshold  to  take responsibilities,  the  result  of which  shall  be  compared with  record  that  is  past,  but  as  I  look  over  the  names  of the  newly  elected  State  officers,  and  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives  who  shall  bear  with  me  the burden of  this administration I am encouraged  to believe  the outcome will be creditable alike  to  the Legislature of 1898, and to the State. I  am  somewhat  uncertain  under  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  and  the  practice  of  those  who  have preceded  me,  precisely  what  is  my  duty  in  the  way  of  a  message.  The  able  and  exhaustive  discussion  by  the outgoing  Governor  of  the  various  subjects  of  State  Government  has  left  little  to  be  said  on  these  topics.  I  am happy  to concur  in many of his recommendations so far as they relate  to  the State Institutions and  to ask you  to give  such  the  most  careful  consideration.  I  am  happy  to  speak  too  from  a  personal  though  necessarily  hurried examination of  the various State Institutions a few weeks since, and of some of  those receiving State aid and  to say  the State has  reason  to be congratulated. There was  in almost every  institution, visited, evidence of careful, watchful  supervision  by  State  trustees  and  economical  prudent  management  by  officers  and  employees.  I  saw no evidence of extravagance or waste of money, either  in  the structures  themselves or  in  their operation, so  far, at  least,  as  appeared  from  superficial  examination.  The  various  reports  by  the  State  officers,  the  trustees  and superintendents  of  the  other  various  institutions  are  before  you  and  ought  to  receive  careful  examination  amid consideration.  Their  recommendations  are,  in  my  judgment,  in  the  main  conservative  and  should  have  the benefit  of  your  intelligent  judgment  and  possibly  your  approval.  I  leave  the  topics  therefore  already  treated  by the  outgoing  Governor  and  by  the  State  officers  and  trustees  and  superintendents  and  bring  to  your  attention, certain new matters which seem to merit especial consideration at this session. The first of two important subjects is a means of increasing the revenue of the State. There are two ways this might  be  accomplished,  either  to  decrease  the  expenses,  or  to  increase  the  income.    In  either  way,  the  net revenue  available  will  be  increased.    As  already  stated,  I  have  not  yet  had  time  or  opportunity  to  go  into  the detail of the operation of the various State Institutions nor the cost of the State Government, to feel competent to advise on this subject. Later I propose to do so and possibly may have something to say, but speaking generally, I do not believe the expenses of the State Institutions can be materially cut down. There is no State in the Union where  every  dollar  thus  expended  is  made  to  go  further  than  in  Vermont,  in  my  judgments  and  it  may  be possible the expenses are already cut down a little too low for the best results to the State. In  respect  to  the  revenue,  however,  there  is  opportunity  for  improvement.  That  available  to  the  State  from taxation  is about half a million dollars a year; $380,000 of this sum  is raised by a  tax on corporations and other similar persons each year, and the balance, (about $126,000 a year) is raised by a tax on the people of the State. It would  be,  in my  judgment,  unfair  and  unnecessary  to  tax  the  people  for  State  expenses more  than  this  sum; rather  the  tax  ought  to  be wiped  out  altogether;  the  people  are  already  paying  taxes  enough. Nor,  as  at  present advised,  do  I  think  the  tax  on  the  Corporations,  Savings  Banks  etc.,  ought  to  be  increased;  it  is  a  serious question whether  these  institutions also are not, as a matter of  fairness and  justice all around, contributing  their full  share  to  the  support  of  the  State  Government;  nor  as  between  such  institutions  do  I  think  there  is  a  great inequality  in  the amount contributed. Each group of persons under  the corporation  tax  law  in comparison  to  the others, seems  to be bearing  its fair share of  the burden of  taxation.   So  that  it  is necessary  to  look elsewhere for an increase of revenue.  I  ask  your  serious  consideration,  therefore,  to  a  proposal  of  amendment  to  the  present  tax  law  which  shall offer  some  inducement  to  persons  at  present  non-residents  of  the  State,  to  become  residents,  so  that  a  revenue can be derived from them which shall be added to our State income, and by which their wealth may be added to ours to the end that our taxes may be less, and the State’s income greater. In many of our sister States there has been radical and extreme legislation with a view to reach the estates of rich  people;  whereby  inheritance  tax,  income  tax  and  extravagant  and  unequal  local  taxes  are  imposed  on  this class of persons  to  their  infinite distrust and annoyance. Legislation of  this character  is growing  in  severity and volume, with the result that, upon good reason or otherwise, a great many large fortunes and innumerable small ones  are  being  driven  from  those  States  into  other  States where  the  laws  of  taxation  are  less  drastic—or  out  of the  United  States  altogether.  Such  fortunes  will  never  locate  permanently  until  they  have  some  harbor  where they can anchor in safety, and where they shall be insured again attacks from what they deem, justly or unjustly, extreme legislation. It is with a view to inducing such storm driven individuals who are seeking help and relief to come and give the Spate of Vermont the benefit of their wealth and receive in return that safe and certain protection which this State  can  give  as  well  as  or  better  than  any  State  in  the  Union,  that  I  suggest  the  advisability  of  adding  to  the present corporation  tax  law a provision  that shall allow any non-resident, who may hereafter become a  resident of  the  State,  the  privilege  of  entering  into  a  contract  with  the  State  under  its  seal  for  a  term  of  years,  say  30 whereby  such  person’s  taxes  shall  be  fixed  at  a  specific  sum  annually.  Such  fixed  sum  to  be  measured  by  a percentage  of  his  sworn  in  come  or  to  be  an  amount  agreed  upon  between  a  Commission  appointed  by  the Legislature and  the party who avails himself of  this  law. Such  sum  to be  in  lieu of all other State or  local  taxes on  his  personal  estate,  and  to  be  paid  directly  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  State  for  its  benefit  annually.  The fundamental  idea  being  that  a  non-resident  may  come  here,  and  before  assuming  the  responsibilities  of citizenship, may receive a contract that the State will tax such person an annual specific sum, to be agreed upon, and  no  more  for  the  term  of  his  contract.  Once  the  contract  is  signed  by  the  State  the  non-resident  becomes  a resident  and  pays  his  annual  fixed  sum  and  is  bothered  no more  pending  the  life  of  his  contract  as  to  taxation, either by legislature or listers or appraisers or courts. As to any real estate such persons may desire to own in the State,  it  should  be  provided  that  such  real  estate  shall  be  taxed  as  other  real  estate  to  the  town  wherein  it  is situated, but  that enough  to allow such person a homestead, say one hundred acres  in  the country or one acre  in the city shall be exempt. That is to say, whatever is assessed against such homestead by the town or city shall be deducted each year from the amount such person pays to the State. The privilege of this law should be limited to such  persons  as  are willing  to  pay  at  least  five  hundred  dollars  per  annum  to  the State,  and  the  contract  should run for the benefit of the person and his legal representatives. There should also be required from such persons a deposit of securities, or a bond to secure the payment of the tax during the term of this contract. There should be a  Commission  appointed  which  shall  have  authority  to  enter  into  such  contracts  on  behalf  of  the  State  and  to affix the seal of the State thereto.  I  can  see  no  good  reason  why  the  State,  under  legislation  that  shall  properly  protect  the  rights  of  every present citizen, should not open its doors to this class of persons and receive a proper and legitimate increase to the revenue, which it can obtain in no other way. If  it  is  true,  and  it  is,  that  the  increasing  wealth  of  citizens  in  other  States  is  being  hidden  and  smuggled  from one  place  to  another  to  avoid  taxation,  unjust  or  otherwise,  what  harm  to  the  people  of  this  State  if  we  invite such  persons  to  locate  here  under  a  contract  which  is  fair  to  the  State  and  fixed  and  positive  and  fair  to  the owner of the property? Such  a  law  would  not  infringe  the  Constitution,  in  my  judgment,  as  the  proposition  simply  adds  to  the present corporation tax law another group of persons who are taxed to the State, in addition to railroads, savings banks,  trust companies, etc and  treats alike all non-residents who avail  themselves of  the  law.    It  is no hardship nor injustice, to present citizens of the State since the money derived would be for the benefit of all alike. The proposition, I submit is an honest one all around—to the State on the one side, and to the non-resident who becomes  a  resident  on  the  other  side.  It  forms  an  equation  in  taxation  where  there  is  value  received  and satisfaction on each side. There  is  in  addition  this  indirect  benefit  that would  come  from  the  successful  operation  of  such  a  law,  that whoever availed himself of it would have to spend a portion of his time in the State, and this would involve the distribution of more or less money, which is not distributed now among the people of the State. I know of no State  in  the Union better  adapted  to  the success of  a proposition of  this  character, or  to which the wealth of the country would come quicker or with more confidence than Vermont. The world knows that an obligation of this State, entered into under its seal, is an obligation that will be fulfilled. Our political and social atmosphere is not tinctured with socialism, anarchism, or any of the spectres that rise up to menace wealth. The State  is  located  near  enough  to  the  large  centers  of  this  country  to  afford  quick  and  easy  communication therewith, and possesses every natural physical beauty and attraction that could be desired. Such  a  law may  not  result  in  an  immediate  and  vast  increase  to  the  revenue  of  the  State,  but  it  is  certain  if we  do  not  try  it  we  shall  not  know;  it  is  also  certain  it  can  do  no  harm,  There  is  some  reason  to  hope  it  will prove a success, if a commission is appointed under it that will push it vigorously. The underlying principle will be, I believe, attractive to any one who is seeking certainty as to taxation and who is not? The  second  thought  I  desire  to  urge  is  the  necessity  at  this  Session  of  positive,  radical,  vigorous  action  in respect to good roads.  The  present  relation  of  the  State  to  the  highways, with  all  due  respect  to  the  framers  of  the  law,  is  entirely wrong.   Under  the  present  law,  over  $86,000  a  year,  5  per  cent,  of  the  grand  list  of  the  State,  is  collected,  and the  same  amount  redistributed  to  the  various  towns,  and  246  Highway  Commissioners  spend  each  town’s proportion of  this eighty-six  thousand dollars  in keeping  in repair  the highways of each particular  town—or are supposed to do so. The state has no voice or direction as to how or when this large sum of money shall be spent, and  no  control  or  jurisdiction  over  it  whatever.    As  a  matter  of  fact,  if  I  may  rely  upon  the  best  information  I have  at  hand,  there  is  not  one  dollar  of  this  money  that  goes  into  permanent  work,  or  that  furnishes  lasting benefit  to  the  State.  There  is  no  report  made  thereof  to  the  State  whatever.  No  man,  in  this  Assembly  would apply  the  principle  that  controls  the  distribution  of  this  5  per  cent  State  tax  for  highways  to  his  own  business. No man with an  income of $86,000, or  less or more, would allow 246 or any number of his servants—however good—to  spend  it without  any  voice  or  control  or  exercise  of  any  accountability  respecting  it whatever.   How, therefore,  can  you  do  your  duty  as  legislators  and  allow  this  condition  as  to  $86,000  of  the  State’s  income  to remain as it is?  This  state  of  affairs  is  no  fault  of  the  Highway  Commissioners  of  the  several  towns,  and  no  criticism whatever on  them.    It  is  incident  to  the  law  itself which dissipates  the benefits  that would accrue  to  the State  if this  $86,000 was  directed  from  one  standpoint,  or  by  the  State.  The  idea  that  underlies  this  law  relating  to  the redistribution  of  the  5  per  cent  tax  is,  that  it  aids  the  poorer  and  smaller  towns;  but  this  is  not  true  in  my judgment.  The  idea  is,  for  instance,  that  the  town  of  Hancock,  which  on  its  grand  list  is  assessed  $59.19, receives  in  the  redistribution  on  its mileage  $130.48.   But  of  this  $130.48  the  town  pays  out  of  its  own  pocket $58.19, so that in reality its gain on redistribution is but $72.29.  This is less than $3.30 per mile on its 22 miles of  road.  Practically  it  is  no  help  at  all  towards  rebuilding  and maintaining  the  roads  of  Hancock.  This  is  but  a fair statement of what each of the smaller towns of the State receives in the way of lasting substantial benefit. In reality it is of no permanent benefit whatever and amounts to nothing.  The $86,000 spent in this way each year is spread out so that the money is practically thrown away and is wasted. The  amount  received  by  each  town  in  excess  of  the  5  per  cent  is  far  below  the  loss  that  inures  to  every inhabitant of each of  these  towns who owns a horse or drives a  team over  its poor  roads.    I have  taken pains  to have statistics prepared to show the cost of transportation of the products of Vermont from various towns which lie  away  from  the  line  of  the  railroads  to  the  railroads,  as  compared  with  the  cost  of  transporting  the  same articles  from  the  railroad  to market.   From  these  statistics  it appears  that on butter,  lumber, granite,  lime, brick, cement  and  hay  the  rate  is  from  $2.50  to  $4.00  per  ton  to  team  from  the  point  of  production  to  the  railroad, while the rate to haul the same articles from the railroad station to the point of consumption is from $3.40 down to $1.66 per ton.  In none of the instances does the haul by team exceed twelve miles; in none of the instances is the  haul  by  railroad  less  than  140  miles.  The  rates  by  railroad  will  never,  in  my  judgment,  be  higher,  so  that whatever can be saved by  improved  roads out of  the cost of  teaming  these products ought  to go  into  the pocket of the producer of the hay or the butter or the lumber or granite, or whatever is teamed.  The standard authorities give  the  saving  in  cost of  teaming over good  roads  as  compared  to  ordinary  dirt  roads,  to  be  from  50  to  75  per cent: so that there is from $1.25 to $3.00 for ever ton of freight teamed, to go into the pocket of the producer in Vermont,  if only good  roads are made where bad ones now exist.   Looking at  it,  therefore,  from  the  standpoint of  the  smaller  towns  away  from  the  railroads,  the  benefit  that  would  result  to  the  inhabitants  thereof  by  the expenditure  of  this money  in making  the  roads  good would  infinitely  exceed  the  amount  received  each  year  in the  redistribution  of  this  5  per  cent  from  the  State  highway  tax.    So  far  as  the  larger  towns  are  concerned  it  is obviously  for  their  advantage  to  change  this  highway  law  and  to  have  better  roads.    It  seems  to  me  these  are strong  reasons  for  changing  the  law  and  securing  better  roads  and  the  solution  is  clear  and  easy.    If  this Legislature  will  direct  that  the  expenditure  of  the  $86,000  collected  each  year  from  the  State  Highway  tax  be devoted under proper restrictions to building highways from these smaller towns to junctions with the railroads. Or into the larger towns, it will be but a few years before these smaller towns reap a benefit a hundred fold over the  present  arrangement.    You  cannot  reap  any  benefit  in  this  direction  by  having  246  heads  control  the distribution by having 246 heads control the distribution of the $86,000, as under the present law.  You must put it in the hands of a few, and these must be experienced in the business and must be responsible to and controlled by  the  State.    The  State  of  Massachusetts,  and  many  of  our  sister  States,  have  already  seen  and  proved  the wisdom of State  care of highways;  it  is no  experiment.    I  earnestly  ask  that  the highway  law of Massachusetts, modified  to  suit  the  exigencies  of  our  State,  be  adopted  here.    I  recommend  the  appointment  of  Highway Commissioners  to  whom  shall  be  turned  over  the  5  per  cent  highway  tax;  who  shall  control  the  expenditure thereof under  the provisions hereinafter named, and who  shall have charge of what  shall be called State Roads.  The expenditure, for  the present at  least,  in a general way ought  to be for  improving and making permanent  the roads  from  the  smaller  towns  to  the  lines  of  the  railroad,  and  the  work  should  be  distributed  fairly  among  the different  counties  of  the State  so  that  on  one  shall  be  favored over  another.   Where permanent work  is decided to be done  in an any of  the particular  towns,  the Selectmen of such  town should be first offered  the contract, so that the money for such work shall be spent in such town; in the event the Selectmen decline, the contract to be afterwards  let  by  publication  and  the  bids  of  Vermonters  in  all  cases  to  be  given  the  preference.    Provision should be made that no road can become a State road except through the request of the Mayor and Aldermen of the  city, or  the Selectmen of  the  town where  the  road  is  located,  so  that where any  town or city desires  to have the State assume any particular highway,  it must be by petition  to  the Highway Commissioners and  in  this way the  cities  and  towns  will  keep  control  of  the  mater  entirely.    When,  however,  such  a  petition  is  made  to  the Highway Commissioners, and is granted, the road described should thereafter become the property of the State, and  be  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  and  repair  by  the  State.    This  is  in  substance  the  present  law  of Massachusetts, and you will make no mistake in following it.  In making the proposal for a State Road Commission, and for the expenditure of this money in making good roads, I do not wish to be understood as meaning to propose to make city roads out of country roads, but simply to  insure permanent work on  the  traveled path only. The  traffic  in  this State  is not  so heavy  as  to  require  roads of  over  ten  feet  in  width,  in  my  judgment  and  by  confining  the  Commissioners  to  this  width  and  to  proper construction,  the money will go much further, and  to avoid  that extravagance which  is  the most serious menace to the success of good roads.  It is a curious fact that civilization and good roads go hand in hand; the higher the civilization, the better the roads. This is true the world over.  The United States has made enormous strides in other methods of transportation, but until recently has been singularly  remiss  in  the  matter  of  good  highways.  Our  sister  States  are  now  fast  realizing  the  incalculable benefits of them, not only as profitable highways for traffic, but as civilizers and as advertisements to secure the patronage  of  summer  tourists  and  vacation  residents,  They  are  spending  millions  of  dollars  in  improving  their high ways,  they are  reaping  the benefits  in  increase of  summer population and of wealth Vermont, with natural attractions  rivaling any of our neighbors, cannot afford  to delay vigorous progress  in  the one direction  that will produce the greatest immediate and lasting benefit to us all.  I earnestly hope you will adopt the principle in the above method of dealing with this subject, and then pass as large an appropriation in addition to the 5 per cent, highway tax to carry out the law as your consciences and sound judgment will permit.  It would be contrary to every instinct of justice if I failed, in closing my message, to notice officially the 1st Regiment of Vermont and its work in the war with Spain. It  is  given  to  some  men  who  walk  the  path  of  sever  duty,  to  receive  at  once  the  shining  reward  of  their faithfulness; to hear the trumpet of fame herald their greatness on the heels of their achievement; to listen to the plaudits  of  the  multitude  at  deeds  but  just  performed,  and  to  catch  in  the  flush  of  their  triumph  the  welcome voice of  their country  in well done  thou good and  faithful.    It  is given  to others  in  this  strange world of ours  to bear  the weight  of  their  burden,  to walk  the  path  of  their  duty  away  from  the  plaudits  of  their  countrymen,  far from blare of public approbation, with bleeding feet and torn garment, unnoticed and unsung; and to the men of our 1st Regiment,  in  their offer  to do  their duty,  in  their  eager  expectant  readiness  to  respond  to  their  country’s call,  in  the broad patriotism  that  furnishes  their  enthusiasm  to  follow  and energy  to defend  their country’s  flag, and,  greatest  of  all,  in  their  noble  unhesitating  readiness  to  sacrifice  self  in  order  that  all we  love  and  honor  in these  United  States  of  ours  may  be  preserved  untarnished,  rank  side  by  side  with  the  others.    After  all,  and behind all,  in  the one case as  in  the other, whether it was Dewey and his squadron  in supreme defiant disregard of  their  own  lives,  with  waving  banners,  plowing  their  way  over  hidden  torpedoes  and  sunken  mines  into Manila  Bay  and  gaining  glory  for  ever  more,  or  our  poor  boys  fighting  unheralded  and  alone  the  invisible merciless specter of fever at Chickamauga, it was the same abiding love of country, the same dauntless spirit of self  sacrifice  that  formed  the  fountain  and  source  of  the  actions  of  each.    In  the  hearts  of  a  proud  and  grateful people,  they  are  heroes  in  the  one  case  and  the  other.    The  memory  of  those  boys  who  died  of  fever  at Chickamauga  and here  in Vermont  should  live,  and will  live,  in  imperishable  glory  linked with  the memory  of those who went  down with  the Maine  or  those who  fell  at  Santiago;  and  those  of  our  boys who  lived  to  come back  to  the  green  hills  of  their  home  should  receive,  and  will  receive,  the  immortal  record  given  those  who fought  their  way  through  the  jungles  of  Cuba  back  to  the  loving  arms  of  their  States.    Neither  the  Nation  nor Vermont will forget either the dead or the living. The  Governor  having  concluded  the  reading  of  his  communication,  withdrew,  and  the  Joint  Assembly dissolved.    CHAUNCEY W. BROWNELL,  Secretary of State, Clerk.