Inaugural address of  Ernest W. Gibson*  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1949  *Ernest W. Gibson resigned January 16, 1950 to accept appointment as a U.S District Judge. Thursday, January 6, 1949 Inaugural Address  To the General Assembly and the People of Vermont: I  take  the  oath  of  office  for  a  second  term  as  Governor  of  Vermont  with  a  prayer  in my  heart.    I  pray  that you and I, the servants of all the people of Vermont, working with our people, can truly say by January, 1951 as Nehemiah said, ‘and so we built the wall, for the people had a mind to work.” THE WORLD OF TODAY It  is  well  for  us  to  take  a  brief  look  at  the  world  of  today;  a  small  world  of  which  Vermont  is  a  tiny,  but important part. It is a world in which science has largely annihilated time and space. It is a world which asks the definite  question—Can  we  live  together  as  close  neighbors,  with  peoples  of  different  colors,  different  creeds, and different languages? The very smallness of Vermont makes it a perfect laboratory to help develop the moral leadership our country must furnish to guide the world to peace and plenty. FREEDOM VERSUS TYRANNY; FRANKNESS VERSUS DECEIT There  are  two  great  ideas  struggling  for mastery  in  this  little world. The  one  championed  by  Soviet Russia would  have  the  State  the master  of  the  individual—would make  human  beings  servants,  serfs,  or  slaves  of  the few  that  grasp  and  control  the  reins  of  government.  Those  who  proclaim  and  uphold  communism,  do  it  in  a deceitful dishonest manner. They profess that they are believers in democracy—are benefactors of the people—while  behind  an  iron  curtain  they  practice  slavery  and  injustice  of  the  rankest  sort.  They  rule  by  fear,  brutality and ruthlessness. Always remember—these adherents preach one thing and practice another. There is no truth—no reliability in them. Then  there  is  the  other  idea—the  idea  that  the  State  is  the  servant  of  the  individual;  that  we,  the  chosen officials of the people, are servants chosen to carry out the will of the people. If we  are  to give  life  to  this  last  idea,  the  idea  in which we believe,  if we want  this  idea  to  spread over  this world of ours; we must practice what we preach. We must not hesitate  to plow ahead on  the course  the people, our masters, choose. 1946—THE PEOPLE SPEAK Two years ago  the people of Vermont spoke. They elected  for  their servants  those who had  literally spelled out  a  constructive,  forward  looking  program  which  would  cast  the  mold  of  a  greater  Vermont.  The  details  of that program were discussed in all parts of this state. The people by their votes said: We want our educational system revitalized; We want better health for all; We want our state institutions put in shape to care for the unfortunate; We want an adequate, modern law enforcement agency created; We want our Development Commission properly equipped  to aid  in bringing  into Vermont small  industries that fit our state; We want the development of Vermont’s recreational facilities encouraged and stimulated; We want our waters free of pollution; We want our agriculture improved and the further destruction of fertile farmlands stopped; We want happy relationship between employer and employed; We want our veterans carefully looked after; We want a hard surface highway into every village; We want cheaper electricity and adequate powers for our Public Service Commission; We want these things and we are willing to pay for them.   THE 1947 LEGISLATURE RESPONDS The  legislature  of  1947  responded  well  to  the  expressed  voice  of  the  people.  As  you  know,  our  normal schools  were  turned  into  teachers’  colleges,  the  minimum  teachers  salary  was  substantially  increased,  an adequate compulsory teachers retirement system was created and an amount in excess of a million dollars a year additional state aid for education was voted. For  greater  efficiency,  all  our  social  services  were  grouped  in  one  state  department—the  Department  of Social Welfare.  Adequate  appropriations  were  made  so  that  those  legally  entitled  to  receive  benefits  to  which they  were  entitled  by  law  could  actually  receive  them.  Brutality  was  abolished  from  the  treatment  of  juvenile delinquents.  Provision  was  made  for  desperately  needed  dormitories  at  Brandon.  Critical  needs  of  other  state institutions were met. A department of Public Safety, containing State Police, was created. A  research unit was provided  for  in  the  Development  Commission—this  to  serve  as  a  foundation  for  the  securing  for  Vermont  of new  small  industries.  A  separate,  independent  Fish  and  Game  Commission  was  established.  Every  aid  was given  those who were  investing private capital  in developing recreational facilities. An enabling act was passed to  aid  communities  in  sewage  disposal  problems.  Two  additional  buildings  were  provided  for  the  State Agricultural College. Sympathetic  attention  and  consideration has been given  to  any problem presented by  any veteran.  We  have  had  but  two  strikes  in  Vermont  in  the  past  two  years—and  these  were  amicably  settled.  A basic  highway  policy  has  been  instituted—namely,  that  we  protect  our  investment  in  the  main  hard  surface roads  and  concentrate  on  hard  surfacing  those  state  and  state  aid  roads  not  now  hard  surfaced—until  we  can have a hard surface road into every village. All  of  these  things were  done  and  provision was made  to  pay  for  them.  There was  created  for  the  State  of Vermont  one  of  the  soundest  tax  systems  that  any  state  has—certainly  sounder  than  that  of  any  other  New England state. A graduated  income  tax bill was adopted, a bill designed  to produce  revenue  to meet  the present and  anticipated  requisites  of  government;  to  distribute  the  burden  as  equitably  as  possible—a  bill  streamlined and  simplified.  The  tax  is  based  on  ability  to  pay  and  on  nothing  else. Ways  of  increasing  revenue within  this soundly devised framework will be discussed in my budget message. EDUCATION KEYNOTE OF 1947 LEGISLATURE Progress has been made in the past two years. Some necessary things weren’t accomplished and couldn’t be, but in all probability the legislature of 1947 will be known in history as the Education Legislature. It left for the legislature  of  1949  the  tackling  of  better  health—the  second  great  foundation  stone  upon  which  democracy rests.  If  our  children, who  are  our  greatest  capital  asset,  can  reach maturity well  educated  and  in  sound  health, we will not only have given  them  an  equal opportunity with all others  in  this world, but we will have done our part to promote democracy throughout the world. 1948—THE PEOPLE SPEAK AGAIN This  last  summer  the  people  spoke  again.  They  said  "we  want  the  program  started  in  1947  continued  and finished.  We  want  progress  continued.  This  is  the  time  for  courage  and  for  confidence  and  the  proving  of democracy. We  reaffirm  our  belief  that  education  and  health  are  the  very  foundation  stones  of  democracy  and we want to see every Vermont youth at his or her maturity well educated and in good health.” SPECIAL MESSAGES ON HEALTH AND UTILITIES This whole problem of public health is of such great importance that I am taking the liberty of leaving it for special and detailed discussion in a message which will be presented to you later. I  shall  take  up  in  a  special message  also  the  all-important  problem  of  an  adequate  supply  of  electricity  for the people of this state and of badly-needed additional powers for the Public Service Commission. These special messages I shall have in your hands in the immediate future.    EDUCATION Equitable Distribution of State Aid Two years ago, as I have already outlined, this state made great progress in this field of education. However, there is still much to do to make our educational system in Vermont second to none. It cannot be done all at one time,  but  at  this  time  we  can  complete  the  solid  foundation  upon  which  will  grow  a  modern  top-notch educational  system  for Vermont. One need  that  should be met by  this  legislature  is  to provide a more equitable basis  for  apportioning  the  considerable  sum  of  money  that  this  state  appropriates  for  education.  The  1947 legislature  created  a  commission  to  study  the  basis  upon  which  state  aid  for  education  is  allocated  among  the towns  and  to  report  to  this  General  Assembly.  Senator  Charles  P.  Smith  of  Chittenden  County  has  served  as chairman  of  that  commission.  His  commission  has  proposed  a  new,  and  to  me,  simpler  and  certainly  more equitable basis  for  the distribution of  this  state  aid.  I  concur with  the  recommendations made  in  this  report  and recommend  that  this  legislature  adopt  such  legislation  as  is  necessary  to  substantially  carry  the recommendations as made into law. Improvement Needed in Teachers Colleges As  I  have  previously  stated,  our  normal  schools  have  now  been  converted  into  teachers’  colleges.  This means  that Vermont  has  departed  from  its  old  system  of  two-year  training  for  its  teachers  and  now  provides  a four  year  course  for  those  who  will  face  the  complex  problems  of  today’s  and  tomorrow’s  classrooms.  The greatest asset we have in Vermont is the youth of Vermont—the greatest asset our youth has is their brains, and anything that we can do to stimulate their thinking—will make for a better and greater and happier Vermont. So I  ask  this  legislature  to give  its  close  attention  to  the  set-up of our present  teachers’  colleges,  to  realize  that  for the  first  time  in many, many  years we have  entering our  teachers’  colleges outstanding Vermont youth—youth who have decided  to dedicate  themselves  to  the  teaching profession. Our percentage of  enrollment  in  teachers’ colleges  this  year  far  exceeds  that  of  any  other  New  England  state.  The  youth  of  Vermont  have  confidence  in the  future  of  Vermont  and  we  must  not  let  them  down.  What  you  can  do  to  improve  these  teachers’  colleges should be done. STREAM POLLUTION Action Needed Now For  more  than  45  years,  we  have  had  on  our  books  legislation  ostensibly  designed  to  protect  and  improve the  condition  of  streams  and  lakes  of  our  state.  Yet  today  our  streams  and  lakes  are  more  heavily  polluted,  I believe,  than ever before. Section 1 of Act No. 109 of  the Acts of 1943 well states  the purpose of purifying our waters,  but  makes  it  impossible  to  carry  out  the  purpose  There  it  is  declared  to  be  the  policy  of  the  General Assembly  to  preserve  and  improve  the  purities  of  the  waters  of  the  state  for  the  protection  of  public  health, animal  and  aquatic  life,  and  for  the  use  of  agriculture  and  recreation.  One  cannot  ride  up  and  down  the  state without  having  forcefully  brought  to  one’s  attention  the  great  number  of  stream  inundated  with  sawdust.  One sees  many  beautiful  streams  into  which  all  manner  of  refuse  has  been  dumped.  Of  course,  too,  most  of  our municipalities use rivers and brooks as a receptacle for their sewage. Sewage disposal systems are costly and so we  cannot  expect  to  see  one  installed  at  once  in  every municipality,  but we must  ever  drive  towards  that  goal. There are some things that can be done now. I recommend that we forbid further dumping of garbage and other refuse into our streams and that the operators of saw mills which now dump their sawdust and other wastes into the  waters  of  the  state,  be  given  a  reasonable  length  of  time  for  otherwise  disposing  of  these  wastes.  I recommend  that  the Water Conservation Board be given  authority  to  take  steps  to enforce  such a  law.  I  further recommend that municipalities be required to file with the Water Conservation Board on or before July 1, 1949, a  map  showing  the  details  of  its  sewage  system,  so  that  we  may  have  an  orderly  program  leading  towards elimination  of  sewage  from  our  streams  and  rivers.  I  recommend  that  legislation  be  enacted  preventing  any municipality from increasing its pollution of our streams by more than 5% until such municipality has filed with the Water  Conservation  Board  adequate  plans  for  the  eventual  establishment  of  proper  sanitary  facilities.  This pollution of our streams and lakes not only may affect the health of our citizens, but is revolting to people from outside  the  state  who  come  here  for  recreation,  for  fishing  and  hunting.  Most  of  all  it  deprives  us  of  the  God given right to the enjoyment in many ways of countless miles of rivers and streams. VERMONT DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION Organization Stage Completed After  a  year  and  a  half  in  the  organization  and  growing  stages,  the  Development  Commission  has  reached the  point  where  it  can  play  the  role  in  the  government  of  the  state  and  in  the  economy  of  the  state  which  has been in our minds since its organization. Competently staffed,  it has made a good start  toward  the collection of  the data which should be  the basis of evaluating  what  has  been  done,  and  of  decisions  as  to  what  should  be  done,  while  simultaneously  working  on specific  projects  requiring  immediate  attention.  The  preliminary work  on  our  program  of  attracting  industry  to the state has been largely accomplished. Inventories of available space and sites have been made, cooperation of all  interested groups has been  solicited, and a  sizable number of prospects have been developed. While  there  is nothing spectacular about  this necessary spade work, we are confident  that within  the next  two years our hopes for new industries, of small and moderate size, will be realized. It  is my hope  that  the Commission will ultimately  take  its place as  the heart of  the state government,  that  to it  can  be  channeled  information  on  all  phases  of  the  state’s  activities,  and  that  to  it  the  administration,  our citizens  and  their  representatives,  may  turn  for  information  upon  which  to  base  the  policies  controlling  our future development. Adequate Salary for Managing Director One  matter  should  be  faced  squarely  by  this  legislature.  The  present  statutory  maximum,  $4500,  for  the salary of the Managing Director is much too low; far too low to attract and hold the type of executive which the position  demands.  Further,  the  policy  of  not  allowing  subordinates  to  receive  salaries  in  excess  of  that  paid  to the department head means blocking off division heads from normal merit  increases which  they could count on in  a  comparable  position  in  another  department.  This  situation,  also  prevailing  in  other  state  agencies,  should not be allowed to continue. Vermont Life I believe everybody in the state is proud of our state magazine, Vermont Life. This magazine is published by the Development Commission for the state. Housing During  the  last  year,  at  our  request,  the  Development  Commission  made  an  exhaustive  study  of  housing legislation of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York and New Jersey, with a view to deciding whether Vermont should take any action. At  present,  it  appears  almost  a  certainty  that  the  federal  congress  will,  in  the  next  session,  make  funds available  for slum-clearance projects and probably  for  rental housing  for  low-income  families.  It  is  to be hoped that  the 1949 General Assembly will,  at  least,  revise  the Housing Authorities Law  so  as  to  enable participation in  this  federal  program  by  any  interested  Vermont  town  or  city.  Specifically,  it  might  be  wise  to  amend  our statutes  to  remove  the  existing  restriction  on  Housing  Authorities  to  towns  of  4000  or  more.  Consideration might also be given to the creation of a State Housing Board whose approval might be required of the adequacy of  housing  projects  and  proposals  for  financing,  under  consideration  by  local  authorities,  and  which  might  be empowered to act as a housing authority for the smaller towns of the state. FORESTS AND FOREST PARKS Use Increases Each Year The  season  of  1947  was  the  largest  season  ever,  for  our  State  Forests  and  forest  parks.  Three  hundred thousand  people  enjoyed  these  recreational  facilities.  I  recommend  that  we  put  these  State  Forest  Parks  in  as good physical condition as we can possibly have  them, but  I do not  recommend  the purchase of  any more  land at this time either for our forests or our forest parks.  Forest Conservation Badly Needed I have been greatly distressed by the apparent ruthless cutting and slashing of many of our forests. The time has  arrived when we  should  consider  our  forests  as  crops  rather  than mines. Unwise  cutting  of  our  forests  has left  them  in poor condition. Today each acre of our  forest  land  is not growing over a  third of what  it  is capable of producing due to the type of timber cutting that we are following. We are wasting our heritage. The economy of  our  state,  the  demand  for  raw  materials  for  our  wood-using  industries  convinces  me  that  we  should  now adopt  a  more  constructive  course.  I  recommend  to  this  legislature  that  it  consider  a  system  of  licensing  forest operators.  The  condition  should  be  imposed  upon  them  that  they  do  their  forest  cutting  in  such  a  manner  that future  growth  would  not  be  hazarded  and  that  a  new  natural  growth  could  be  brought  along  on  the  areas  cut. The average farmer who cuts over his own timber land does a fairly good job. So in any licensing law, such as I have suggested, I wou1d define an operator as someone cutting over 300,000 board feet or 30 cords of wood  in any one year. This would make  the operation of such a  law simple because  it would be restricted  to a relatively small number of operators rather than fifteen or twenty thousand timbers owners. AGRICULTURE Preserve Fertile Farm Lands Agriculture  is  the very  foundation  stone of Vermont  life. We must continue  to make every effort  to keep  in good  tillable  condition  every  acre  of  farm  land  we  possess  in  this  state.  We  should  oppose  the  destruction  of fertile farm lands for any reason. Protect Name of Vermont  I  have  been  greatly  disturbed  by  some  of  the  advertisements  I  have  read  in  large  national  pictorial magazines, advertising what  is ostensibly  the State of Vermont maple products.  It  is done under various guises playing on  the good name of Vermont maple products. Actually,  such products have but  little,  if  any, Vermont maple  syrup  in  them.  We  should  take  every  step  possible  to  protect  the  name  of  Vermont  in  connection  with maple products,  and  if  there  is  a way of preventing  such  advertising as  I have mentioned, we  should  take  steps to  prevent  it.  Certainly  we  should  make  known  to  the  world  that  such  products  are  not  real  Vermont  maple products.  I  recommend  that  we  amend  our  brand  registration  law  so  that  no  such  labels  or  brands  be  in  the future  approved  without  the  approval  in  writing  of  both  the  State  Department  of  Health  and  the  Agriculture departments. Our Maple Syrup Industry I  recommend  the  addition  of  a  grading  and marketing  act  for maple  products  so  that  one  in  purchasing  our maple products may be sure of  the quality one  is obtaining and I recommend  the financing of such an act by an industry  tax upon every gallon of syrup made. As an  incentive for our people not  to cut  their sugar maple  trees.  I  recommend  this  legislature  consider  a  tax  exemption  for  operating  sugar  places,  with  a  severance  tax  which would tend to discourage the cutting off of productive maple orchards. Dutch Elm Disease The Dutch Elm  disease  presents  a  very  real  danger  to  our  trees.  It  has now  been  found  in  9  towns  and  in  3 southern counties. Left unchecked  there  is every reason  to expect  this  to spread rapidly and damage our  trees.  I believe  provision  should  be made  for  inspections  by  our  department  of  Agriculture  to  determine  the  spread  of this  disease  and  that  steps  be  taken  to  encourage  community  effort  in  carrying  out  clean-up  and  control measures. Bangs Disease There  is  considerable  confusion  as  to  what  the  best  program  is  for  combatting  Bang’s  disease  in  cattle. There  is  a  national  movement  for  uniformity  in  plans  and  for  rules  to  govern  interstate  movement  of  cattle.  I would  recommend  this  legislature  carefully  consider  whether  or  not  Vermont  should  become  a  part  of  this uniform movement and amend our laws to conform thereto.  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY Organization Accomplished On  July  1,  1947,  the Department  of  Public  Safety  came  into  being. Organization  of  such  a  department  is  a gigantic  task,  one  that  cannot  be  completed  and  perfected  in  one  year  or  even  two.  Within  the  short  span  of eighteen months,  the Department of Public Safety with  its State Police,  its Bureau of Identification, and  its Fire Marshal’s Division, all  law enforcement agencies now  functioning under a single head, has proven  its worth.  It has  worked  in  friendly  and  close  cooperation  with  all  other  law  enforcement  agencies.  It  has  effectively improved the detection and prevention of crime throughout the State. Modern Communication System Installed For the first time in history, Vermont is now linked by teletype with all the law enforcement agencies of our sister  northeastern  states. Within  Vermont  a  modern,  three-way  radio  system  has  now  been  installed  and  is  in full  operation.  Utilizing  this  modern  method  of  communication,  lost  and  missing  persons  have  been  located; transients  have  been  informed  of  unexpected  illness  or  death  within  their  families;  stolen  property  has  been recovered; hundreds of criminals have been apprehended, and fugitives from justice from other states no longer seek safety within our borders without being speedily detected. Our own wrong-doers are becoming very much aware that word of their misdeeds will precede them wherever they go. Trooper Within Thirty Minutes of Every Settlement Today the State Police maintain five district offices which are open twenty-four hours every day of the year. Frankly,  this  is all  they can afford.  It  is our aim  to have a State Trooper within 30 minutes of any  settlement  in Vermont. Each of  these  five  districts  receives  and  investigates more  than  35  complaints of  all kinds  every day. Our State Troopers patrol our  rural areas as well as our main highways  for  longer hours  than ever before. They are always on call to protect you wherever you may be. Additional State Police Needed During  the  past  eighteen  months  each  of  our  State  Troopers  has  worked  more  than  91  hours  per  week.  If they are to continue the type of service which we expect, if they are to cope successfully with an ever increasing volume  of  traffic,  the  present  State  Police  force  must  be  increased.  I  recommend,  therefore,  an  increase  in personnel for the State Police of fifteen officers in 1950 and twelve in 1951. TRANSPORTATION Fu1ltime, Well Paid Chairman of Highway Board Our  Highway  Department  handles  more  than  eight  million  dollars  per  year.  Our  road  building  program, greatly  curtailed  during World War  II,  is  still  not working  at  top  speed.  In  an  age  of machines  and  high  speed, our  organization  is  adapted  more  to  the  horse  and  buggy  era.  The  Chairman  of  the  Highway  Board  is  paid  at maximum but $3,000 a year, yet his  is  the main  responsibility  for  formulating a program  for  the expenditure of millions  for  our  highways—his,  too,  should  be  the  responsibility  for  putting  steam  into  the  department  for  the efficient  rapid  execution of  this program,  and  for  the weeding out of  those whom  the world has passed by. We cannot blame the chairman under the present system for this lack of steam. He does not receive sufficient pay to compensate  him  for  putting  his  full  time  and  energy  into  revitalizing  our  highway  program.  I  therefore recommend  not  only  that  we  continue  the  basic  policy  of  hard  surfacing  dirt  or  gravel  roads  as  rapidly  as possible,  but  that  the  position  of  Chairman  of  the  Highway  Board  be  made  a  full  time  job  with  a  salary commensurate with the great responsibilities it entails. Aviation Aviation has benefited by  the  largest development within any  similar period of  time.    In part,  this  reflects a national trend; in part it was facilitated by the availability of federal airport funds supplemented by further funds for airport improvement from the state and municipalities. In addition, many private airports have been built and thereby  serve  a public use. A  system of  state  approval of  airports  and  air  schools has produced  a high  standard in each case. Roof markings have contributed to safety, and made the area more easily navigable by out-of-state pilots.  Air  carrier  service  is  now  rendered  at  the  three  major  airports  (Burlington,  Barre-Montpelier  and Rutland). It  is  recommended  that  an  appropriation  of  $100,000  be  made  to  continue  participation  of  airport development under terms of the federal airport program. STATE SALARIES Department Heads Most Underpaid of any State Employees The  matter  of  salaries  for  state  officials  and  employees  is  a  disturbing  one.  In  my  opinion  the  most  under paid group in the state service are the major department heads. As an example, our State Treasurer, who has the responsibility  of  handling millions  of  dollars  each  year, who has  the  responsibility of  investing  surplus money, of  selling bonds  at  the proper  time  to provide working  capital, of watching carefully our whole  financial  setup, is  paid  the  salary  of  but  $5,000.  The  same  is  true  of  the  Auditor  of  Accounts,  the  watch  dog  of  Vermont expenditures,  who  tries  his  level  best  to  see  that  every  cent  of  money  is  spent  in  accordance  with  the  statute laws of Vermont. The Commissioner of Taxes, who  is  charged with  the  collection of millions of dollars yearly of  taxes, of doing  it  thriftily and of doing  it honestly and  impartially,  is paid  the salary of but $5,500.00. Those are  merely  samples.  I  could  continue  on  and  list  many  other  department  heads  with  great  responsibilities  who are  not  receiving  a  salary  in  any  sense  commensurate  with  the  heavy  responsibility  of  their  office.  I  sincerely hope this legislature will substantially increase these salaries. Employees Retirement System There  is  one  amendment  that  I  shall  suggest  to  the  Employees  Retirement  System  Act  and  I  ask  that  your most careful consideration be given it. It deals with compulsory retirement of elective officials. Cost of Living Salary Adjustment I  do  not  need  to  tell  you  that  the  cost  of  living  has  gone  higher  almost  every  month  during  the  past  two years.  Since we  have  tried  to  operate  State  business,  by  levying  only  such  taxes  as were  necessary  to meet  the appropriated  expense  of  State  government  as  fixed  by  the  legislature,  it  has  not  been  possible  to  give  the employees of  the State more  than an average $50  cost of  living  increase  in  salary. This has not been enough  to meet  the  actual  increased  cost  of  living.  I,  therefore,  recommend  that  this  legislature  study  this  situation  and appropriate  from  the  General  Fund  Budget  a  sum  to  be  used  as  a  cost  of  living  salary  increase  for  State employees  so  that  each  one’s  actual  financial  position  in  terms  of  purchasing  power will  be  as  good  now  as  it was  two  years  ago.  Employees  not  paid  out  of  the  General  Fund  Budget  should,  of  course,  be  treated  in  the same manner. FISH AND GAME More Stocking Needed; Daily Take of Trout Should Be Reduced The  1947  legislature  set  up  an  independent  Fish  and  Game  Commission.  The  commission’s  sole  mission was  to establish  the wildlife policy of  the state and I think it has done an excellent  job. Nearly 103,000 resident fishing licenses and better than 33,000 non-resident fishing licenses were issued during the year ended April 30, 1948.  This was  a  tremendous  indication  of  the  interest  there  is  in  fishing  and  hunting. At  the  present  time,  the most  pressing  demand  is  for more  fishable waters.  This means more  stocking with  suitable  species  of  fish  and of  course  protection  from  pollution.  A  major  hatchery  development  is  contemplated  at  Bald  Hill  in  Orleans County.  It  is  necessary  to  have  controlled  volume  and  temperature  of  water,  supplied  by  drilling,  before  any large development is undertaken there. I believe a special appropriation for this project could well be considered by  this  legislature.  I  also  recommend  the  legislature  consider  reducing  from 20  to 12  the daily  take of  trout  for sportsmen and  that  the  season be extended up  to and  including Labor Day. Due  to  the hazards of  forest  fires at various  times,  the  take  of  fish  and  game may  be  suspended  by  proclamation  of  the Governor.  I  recommend  in such  instances discretionary power be given  to  the commission  to extend seasons,  in such event,  to compensate for portions lost.  Special Deer License Tag To  help  in  better  enforcing  the  law  and  to  aid  in meeting  the  growing  costs  of  deer  damage,  I  recommend legislation  authorizing  a  deer  tag  to  be  issued  with  all  hunting  licenses.  This  tag  will  constitute  a  special  deer license and I recommend a fee of $1 additional for this. NATIONAL GUARD The  National  Guard  has  made  excellent  progress  in  its  reorganization.  All  but  two  of  the  units  originally allocated  to  the State have been organized. Among  these units are  the 172nd  Infantry which served so valiantly in  the  Pacific  area  during  World  War  II.      The  organization  of  the  206th  Field  Artillery  Battalion  brought  to Vermont its first National Guard artillery unit in recent years. For the first time Vermont has an Air National Guard which is based at Fort Ethan Allen and the Burlington Municipal Airport.   Its 134th Fighter Squadron  is one of  the best National Guard squadrons  in  the country. The total aggregate strength is approximately 2,000. At  the  time  of  the  disastrous  Rutland  flood  nine  units  of  the  National  Guard  were  on  duty  in  that  area  for varying  lengths  of  time,  and  units  of  the  Air  National  Guard  were  used  for  observation  and  emergency transportation.  All  units  were  alerted  during  the  drought  period  in  the  fall  of  1947.  Seven  units,  as  well  as  the Air  National  Guard,  under  direction  of  town  fire  wardens  and  the  State  Fire  Marshal,  assisted  in  putting  out forest fires. Our National Guard is to be commended for its assistance during these emergencies. I  bespeak  the  continued  enthusiastic  support  of  the  growth  of  the  National  Guard  in  this  state  by  every citizen.  The  National  Guard  really  is  this  country’s  first  line  of  defense.  In  this  age,  terrible  disasters  --  even wars -- can occur or start over night. Vermonters never have neglected their duty in this matter of defense. VETERANS Our State Veterans Board has given careful and sympathetic attention to any problem presented to it by any veteran. Yet  a  great  problem  still  lies  ahead.  In  the  next  three  years  approximately  3,000 Vermont  young men and  women  who  have  taken  advantage  of  their  educational  rights  under  the  “G.I.  Bill”  will  seek  to  put  their newly acquired skills to work. Countless thousands of others who may find themselves in dead-end jobs should be given every assistance within our power to find their proper niche in our industrial life. This State must be prepared to carry on a continuous specialized job placement program, which will awaken employers to the value of this vast reservoir of skilled manpower. To such a program I pledge the full resources of  our  state  government.  Vermont  can  ill  afford  to  lose  this  group  of  trained  youth  to  other  states  as  it  has  so consistently in the past. INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Workmen’s Compensation Act Antiquated On the whole, relations between employer and employees in Vermont have been wholesome. I believe there are  certain  corrective  measures  that  should  be  taken  for  the  good  of  Vermont.  The  Vermont  Workman’s Compensation  Act  has  been  amended  in  a  piecemeal  manner  by  a  number  of  legislatures.  This  method  is  too slow and  ineffective  to bring  this act  to a parity with other New England states.  I would,  therefore,  recommend that  an  interim  study  of  our  Workmen’s  Compensation  Act  be  authorized  to  recommend  a  revision  to  the legislature  of  1951.  This  should  not,  however,  prevent  this  legislature  from  liberalizing  certain  parts  of  the Workmen’s  Compensation  Act.  Specifically  amendments  are  needed  now  for  these  parts:  the  medical  and hospital  provisions  of  our  Act,  maximum  percentage  of  wages  which  establishes  the  weekly  compensation payable  to  injured  workmen  and  the  weekly  compensation  rate,  and  the  matter  of  reducing  the  present exemption from seven employees to five or three employees, or even lower. Woman and Child Labor I  would  further  recommend  that  we  should  not  employ  women  workers  in  manufacturing  establishments after 10:00 p.m.  This prohibition should also apply to minors under 18 years of age. Truck and Bus Drivers I  also  recommend  that  a  compulsory  rest  period  for  truck  and  bus  drivers  be  decreed;  so  that  all  drivers  of motor  trucks  and  buses  be  allowed  24  hours  of  consecutive  rest  in  every  calendar  week  and  that  a  limit  be placed on the sustained driving period. UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION COMMISSION Change of Name Suggested For a  long  time  it has appeared  to me  that  the name of  this commission  is misleading and  is not descriptive of its functions. This commission deals both with unemployment problems and employment problems. I believe a more fitting name should be effected. I suggest the Vermont Employment Security Commission. Change in Law Recommended The  existing  law provides  that  the benefit year begins on  the  first Saturday  in April of  each year. This  is  in variance with the requirements that benefits begin on Sunday, and I recommend the act be changed accordingly. The  act  should  also  be  amended  to  provide  that  an  unemployed  claimant must  actually  seek work.  Such  is  not the case now. I recommend the broadening of UCC coverage to four or more employees. I also recommend that consideration  be  given  to  the  employee who while  unemployed  and  otherwise  eligible  for  benefits,  is  taken  ill and  there  is  no  suitable  work  for  him.  It  would  seem  he  ought  to  continue  to  draw  benefits  regardless  of  his illness  while  these  conditions  exist.  I  recommend  also  that  maximum  weekly  benefits  be  increased.  Benefits have  been  50%  although  this  has  not  been  true  of  the  lower  income  brackets.  I  recommend  that  up  to  a maximum  of  $25  a week,  our  law  be  amended  so  that  the  unemployed  person will  receive  approximately  50% of his wages while unemployed. TOWN FINANCES A State  is only  as  strong  as  its  component parts  and  it  is vitally necessary  that our  towns be well managed. The State contributes large amounts to town finances and it is only reasonable that the State be assured that this is properly used for  the purposes for which  it  is appropriated. I feel  that  the present Act enabling  towns  to have an audit by  the State Auditor of Accounts  should be  amended  so  that  an  audit will be compulsory at  least once in  four  years,  and may  be  had  oftener  if  the  town  desires  it.  This would  in  no way  interfere with  “home  rule”, but would provide further assurance that the barn door will be locked before the horse is stolen. DISPLACED PERSONS There  are  a  large number of people,  just  such people  as you  and  I, who have been driven  from  their homes in  Europe.  They  dare  not  return.  If  they  do,  in  all  probability  they  will  either  be  sent  to  slave  camps  or  be executed. We call them Displaced Persons. Recently we have created a state committee to help bring Displaced Persons  into Vermont. This committee  is  sponsored by  the Governor. The  influx of a  few of  these good people into Vermont will  be  good  for  us. The  hardships  these  people  have  gone  through  have  portrayed  to  them most vividly  the  value  of  freedom  and  just what  hard work means. A  little  of  their  understanding  of  these  things,  if conveyed  to  us,  will  be  for  our  good.  I  therefore  recommend  the  state  be  authorized  to  guarantee  a  sum  up  to $10,000  which  will  protect  towns  of  Vermont  from  having  any  unfortunate  Displaced  Persons  fall  back  onto towns. These people will be placed in communities through three great social agencies—Church World Service (Protestant), Vermont Catholic Charities  (Catholic) and Rutland Jewish Center  (Jewish). Coming  into a strange country,  the one  thing  they will have  in common with our people  is  their religious faith, so  these agencies form the basis for taking care of these Displaced Persons. CONCLUSION In opening this inaugural address, I referred to Nehemiah. I am sure most of you remember the story. Nehemiah was an exile  from  Jerusalem,  living  in Persia. From  travelers passing  through he  learned  that  the gates of  Jerusalem had  fallen down,  and  that  its walls were  tumbling  into  ruin. He knew  that  the only ones  left behind by the conquering Persians were the aged, the sick, the children. The Persians only had use for the able-bodied men  and  the  young  attractive women. Thus  he  knew  that  there were  in  Jerusalem,  helpless,  defenseless people without a protecting wall. Nehemiah,  after  prayer  and  meditation,  went  to  Artaxerxes,  the  King  of  Persia,  and  begged  permission  to return  to  Jerusalem  to  rebuild  the wall. The permission granted, Nehemiah  returned  to  Jerusalem  and made  the necessary plans. He  then  roused  the  people  to  build  the  wall.  All  of  the  people  joined—jewelers,  druggists,  housemaids, merchants;  the  ragged  and  the well-to-do. The wall was  built. Then  and  only  then  could  the  aged,  the  sick,  the children of Jerusalem be free from fear; then only could they relax, with happiness and love abundant. Just  so  two  years  ago, we,  the people of Vermont  joined  to  start  building  a wall—not  a wall  to  set  us  apart from  our  neighbors;  but  one  that  will  spell  love,  comfort,  and  care  for  the  aged  and  the  sick;  a  wall  that  will provide an opportunity  for uninterrupted  education  and  for understanding; a wall  that will provide  strength  and happiness for our children. The  wall  is  a  symbol  of  a  united  people,  determined  that  they  should  work  together  and  live  together  as neighbors, with faith, with love, with charity, with hope. Two years ago, we, the people of Vermont began to provide long deferred, long needed shelter and help for the  aged  and  for  the  unfortunate.  Desperately  needed  new  buildings  at  some  of  our  state  institutions  were authorized, and adequate appropriation was made  so  that  those  entitled  to  aid because of  age, or being blind or crippled could have it. So too we provided a foundation for a good education for our children. The  wall  is  partly  built.  There  are  still  things  to  be  done,  the  public  health  to  be  protected.  Our  task  is  to finish that wall now that we too may say, “so we built the wall, for the people had a mind to work.”