Inaugural address of  Hiland Hall  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  House of Representatives  October Session  1858  Friday, October 15, 1858 Inaugural Address  FELLOW – CITIZENS OF THE SENATE   AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: We have come together in obedience to the directions of the constitution to consult upon the condition of the state  and  to  adopt  such measures  of  legislation, within  the  limits  of  the  people’s  charter  under which we  are  to act,  as  their  wants  and  interests may  seem  to  require.    In  the  performance  of  this  duty  the  labor  as  well  as  the responsibility  devolves  almost  exclusively  upon  you.    Our  state  government  is  emphatically  a  people’s government,  being  more  purely  democratic  in  its  character  than  any  other  in  America,  and  probably  in  the world.    To  the  immediate  representatives  of  the  people,  of  the  several  towns  and  counties  in  the  state,  is committed  the  absolute  power  of  annually  choosing  all  the  officers,  both  executive  and  judicial,  who  are  not annually  elected  by  the  people,  and  of  enacting  such  laws  as  to  the  majority  of  them,  assembled  in  their respective houses, shall seem meet. To  this  power  of  legislation  the  governor  has  not,  as  in most  of  our  sister  states,  even  a  qualified  negative.  His authority is of an advisory character merely.  By interposing objections to a proposed measure he may cause a  reconsideration  of  it,  but  if  a  majority  of  the  two  houses  remain  favorable  to  the  measure,  it  becomes  a  law without  the  approval  of  the  executive.    The  successful  operation  of  the  popular  features  of  our  system  is  a subject  of  just  congratulation,  furnishing  the  strongest  evidence  of  the  wisdom  and  foresight  of  its  framers,  as well as of the virtue and intelligence of those by whom it has been administered.  The past year has been one of unusual depression  in  the business of  the country,  in which  the people of  this state have shared  to a considerable extent,  though  it  is believed  in a  less degree  than  in many others.   Although an  immediate  restoration  of  business  to  its  former  active  and  successful  condition  is  not  perhaps  to  be anticipated, we have still no occasion for despondency.  The productions of our soil during the past season have been  unusually  abundant;  our  people  have  been  blessed  with  an  ordinary  degree  of  health;  are  in  the  full enjoyment  of  civil  and  religious  liberty,  and  the means  of  intellectual  culture,  as well  as  of  comfortable  bodily subsistence, are believed to be within the reach of all our citizens.   With all those and numerous other blessings so bountifully showered upon us by a kind and beneficent Providence, we have abundant cause for thankfulness and rejoicing for the past, and also for hope and confidence in the future. Coming  newly  into  office  and  having  had  little  recent  experience  in  state  legislation,  I  make  this introductory communication rather in compliance with established usage, than in any very confident expectation of  furnishing  you  with  essential  aid  in  the  discharge  of  your  various  important  duties.    I  shall  however  make such  suggestions  as  occur  to  me  on  some  subjects  which  I  deem  worthy  of  your  notice,  commending  them  to your candid consideration. The report of the auditor of accounts, which, in conformity to the provisions of law, has just been published, shows  the  receipts and expenditures of  the  state, during  the past political year, and  the present condition of our state  finances.    From  this  report  it  appears  that  the  balance  in  the  treasury  on  the  first  of  September  1858, was $30,643  71,  and  that  the  amount  of  taxes  uncollected was  $60,259  26, making  together  the  sum  of  $90,891  97 as  the  immediate  available  resources  of  the  state,  and  that  the  indebtedness  of  the  state,  including  orders unpresented, the bank safety fund and the sums due to towns for United States surplus money, was $143,904 07, exceeding  the  current  available  resources  by  the  sum  of  $53,012  10.    It  is  to  be  observed  that  there  has  been expended  in  the  construction  of  the  new  state  house  the  sum  of  $61,127  70,  and  that  but  for  this  extraordinary expenditure,  made  necessary  by  the  accidental  destruction  of  the  old  edifice,  the  sum  in  the  treasury  and  the assessed taxes would exceed the state indebtedness by about the sum of $8,000.  The policy of the state from its first  organization  has  been  against  the  creation  of  a  permanent  state  debt.    Extraordinary  and  unexpected  calls upon the treasury, like that now requiring the construction of a new capitol, have occasionally been provided for by  temporary  loans,  but  provision  for  their  speedy payment has  always  heretofore  been made.   This  policy  has had  a  strong  tendency  to  produce  a  judicious  economy  in  our  expenditures,  and  I  trust  is  not  to  be  departed from. The report of the auditor of accounts also embraces the reports of the several officers having the charge and inspection,  respectively,  of  the  Vermont  asylum  for  the  insane,  and  of  the  state  prison,  and  also  the  bank commissioner’s report. The  report  of  the  commissioner  of  the  insane  is  highly  complimentary  to  the  conduct  and  management  of the  asylum, which, under  the direction of  its experienced  superintendent and board of  trustees,  appears  to be  in very successful operation. The  reports  of  the  directors  of  the  Vermont  state  prison  and  its  superintendent,  are  also  of  a  favorable character.  I would respectfully call your attention to the recommendation of the directors for reconstructing the cells  of  the  prison,  which  the  comfort  as  well  as  the  preservation  of  the  health  of  the  inmates  would  seem  to demand. From  the  report  of  the  bank  commissioner,  it  appears  that  all  the  banks  in  operation  in  the  state  are considered to be in a sound condition, though the capital of some of them, by reason of losses, has been reduced below  the  chartered  amount.    It  would  also  seem  that  many  of  the  banks  have  violated  some  of  their  charter provisions.    I  beg  leave  to  call  to  your  attention  to  these  violations,  specified  by  the  commissioner,  and  to submit to your consideration whether further legislation is necessary to prevent their repetition. I  have  reason  to  believe  that  the  geological  survey  of  the  state,  under  the  superintendence  of  the  eminent state  geologist,  is  being  judiciously  and  successfully  prosecuted.  His  report  will  be  laid  before  you  at  an  early day, with such suggestions as shall then occur to me as important. Reports  are  also  expected  from  the  superintendent of  the  state house, on  the progress  and present  condition of  the  work  on  that  edifice,  and  from  the  secretary  of  the  board  of  education,  showing  the  proceedings  of  the secretary  and  of  the  board  during  the  past  year,  which  reports  will  be  severally  communicated  to  you.    On transmitting these reports, I shall take occasion to submit such remarks upon the different subjects embraced by them as shall seem to be required. The  subject  of  the  condition  and management  of  our  railroads  is  one  of  the  very  highest  importance  to  the state,  but  as  it  will  come  appropriately  before  you  by  the  report,  which  is  to  be  made  to  you  by  the  railroad commissioner, I forbear to comment upon it. The militia of  the  state have  lately  received more  than usual public  attention,  and  the  subject will doubtless be  before  you  for  consideration.    The  condition  of  the  militia  has  heretofore  been  deemed  a  matter  of  great importance.    Our  ancestors  brought  with  them  to  this  country  a  strong  hereditary  dread  of  standing  armies, which  successive  events  in  the  parent  country  continually  served  to  strengthen  and  confirm.    It was  found  that whenever such military force was not engaged in foreign wars, it was generally employed by the government in oppressing  and  attempting  to  enslave  the  people,  and  this  whether  the  force  was  controlled  by  the  crown,  by parliament  or  a  protector.    This  conviction  of  the  danger  of  standing  armies,  and  a  belief  in  the  safety  and efficiency  of  a  well  regulated  militia  for  purposes  of  defence  and  protection,  were  established  political principles of our revolutionary fathers, and as such were incorporated into our state constitution. The  early  settlers  of  New  England  were  in  the  constant  daily  use  of  fire-arms  for  their  protection  against savages and wild beasts.  Such arms were also required in the pursuit of game, which often furnished them with convenient  and  sometimes  indispensable  means  of  subsistence.    The  frequent  attacks  which  were  made  upon their  settlements  by  the  Indians  and  afterwards  by  the  French  and  Indians  combined,  the  threatened  dangers from  the  oppressions  of  the mother  country, which  immediately  followed  the  close  of  the  French war,  and  the actual  hostilities  of  the  revolutionary  period,  all  stimulated  the military  spirit  of  our  ancestors,  and made  them not  only  cheerfully  submit  to  frequent  and  expensive  drills  and  musters  for  their  improvement  in  military discipline,  but  to  feel  an  honest  and  patriotic  pride  in  establishing  and  maintaining  a  high  character  for  the efficiency  of  their military  organization.   This military  spirit  continued  to  prevail  to  a  considerable  extent  until the war of 1812, during which  the militia were  frequently called out and often  rendered valuable and  important service  to  the country.   But after  the peace with England  in 1815,  the character and efficiency of  the militia  for parade  and  discipline  suffered  a  marked  and  rapid  decline.    This  apparent  abatement  of  military  ardor  is doubtless mainly,  if  not  wholly,  to  be  attributed  to  the  feeling  which  has  extensively  pervaded  the  community since  that  period,  that  all  danger  from  foreign  invasion  had  ceased,  that  little  or  none  was  to  be  apprehended from  domestic  violence,  and  that  consequently  a military  organization was  unnecessary  and  useless. Under  the influence  of  this  feeling,  our  laws,  which  have  required  our  citizens  to  furnish  themselves  with  arms  and equipments,  to  appear  with  them  by  companies  for  inspection  and  drill,  and  to  attend  regimental  and  other musters,  have  been  looked  upon  as  imposing  expensive  and  unnecessary  burdens,  and  all  efforts  of  legislation for  some  years  past,  to  give  popularity  and  efficiency  to  such  laws,  have  proved  unavailing.    I  am  not  now considering  the  justice  and  propriety  of  this  feeling,  but  merely  stating  the  fact  of  its  existence,  a  fact  which ought not  to be overlooked  in  any  further attempt at  legislation on  the  subject.   For  in our  republican  system,  a law  in  order  to  be  permanent  and  effectual  must  be  sustained,  or  at  least  must  not  be  condemned,  by  public sentiment. By  our  present  laws  the  militia  is  divided  into  two  classes,  denominated  the  enrolled  and  the  uniformed militia.  All persons liable to do militia duty by the laws of the United States and of this state, are to be annually enrolled  by  the  listers  of  the  several  towns,  and  a  return  is  to  be made  of  their  enrollment  to  the  Adjutant  and Inspector  General.    The  enrolled  militia  is  divided  by  territory  into  regiments,  brigades  and  divisions,  but  its members as such are not liable to drill, muster or inspection. The  uniform  militia  consists  of  companies  of  volunteers  from  the  enrolled  militia,  of  which  there  may  be one,  and under  certain  restrictions,  two  to  each  regiment.   These  companies of volunteer militia  are  required  to serve  eight  years  unless  sooner  discharged;  are,  on  proper  security,  to  be  furnished with  arms  belonging  to  the state;  are  at  their  own  expense  to  furnish  themselves  with  equipments  and  with  uniform,  as  directed  by  the commander-in-chief;  are  subject  to  inspection,  drill  and  muster;  and  each  member  of  such  company,  who  is returned uniformed and equipped, and who has performed three days military service, is entitled to receive three dollars annually from the state treasury. The  sparseness  of  our  agricultural  population  is  unfavorable  to  the  organization  of military  companies,  and it  is  probably  only  in  some  of  our  largest  villages  that  they  may  be  expected  to  be  formed  and  supported.  Several  companies  have  recently  been  organized  in  the  state,  who  met  for  voluntary  drill  and  muster  at Brandon,  on  the  first  and  second  of  September,  and  were  reviewed  by  the  commander  –  in  –chief.    It  is  but justice  to  those volunteer companies  to  say,  that  their appearance and discipline were, under  the circumstances, creditable to them and to the state. The  success  of  this muster  of  uniform militia  appears  to  have  in  some  degree  awakened  a military  spirit  in the  community.    It  is  understood  that  several  new  volunteer  companies  are  in  the  process  of  organization,  in different  parts  of  the  state,  and  that  application  for  greater  legislative  encouragement  for  this  class  of  militia than  is  now  given,  is  likely  to  be  made  at  the  present  session.    I  have  thought  it  proper  to  take  this  rather lengthened  notice  of  our  militia  history,  and  of  the  results  of  our  previous  legislation,  in  order  to  bring  this subject  fully  before  you.    I  trust  you  will  give  the  matter  a  careful  and  judicious  consideration,  and  that whatever  action  you  may  take,  will  be  such  as  will  be  permanently  beneficial  to  the  soldier  and  to  the community.   I  feel  it  my  duty  to  call  your  attention  to  our  laws  on  the  subject  of  the  attachment  of  property  on  mesne process, and especially  to  that feature of  them which give priority  to  the first attaching creditor.   Whatever may have been  the effect of  this  law at an early day when credit was comparatively  limited,  its present operation  is, in  my  judgment,  unfavorable  to  the  business  interests  of  the  community.    It  operates  harshly  upon  the  honest debtor,  by  offering  a  premium  to  such  creditor  as  shall  first  attach  and  deprive  him  of  the  possession  of  his property,  and  perhaps  ruin  his  business;  and  it  is  unjust  to  creditors,  by  allowing  the  most  greedy  and unscrupulous  one  to  obtain  his whole  debt  from  an  insolvent,  to  the  entire  exclusion  of  all  others.    It  furnishes also  to  the  dishonest  debtor  a  convenient  mode  of  defrauding  his  creditors,  by  procuring  his  property  to  be secured to himself by a fictitious attachment.   I would therefore earnestly recommend the passage of an act that shall provide for the equal distribution of the proceeds of property attached, among all the attaching creditors. Forming  a  portion  of  the  general  government, we  are  deeply  interested  in  the measures  and  character  of  its administration,  and  a  few  words  in  reference  to  them  will  not,  it  is  believed,  be  deemed  out  of  place  in  this communication. The marked  general  feature  of  the  national  government  for  several  years  past,  has  been  its  entire  disregard and  abandonment  of  some  of  the most  important  principles,  which  were  considered  as  political  axioms  by  the framers  of  the  constitution,  and  acted  upon  as  such  in  the  earlier  and  purer  days  of  the  government  and  indeed down to a very recent period.  This has been more particularly manifested in reference to the subject of slavery.  Thus,  the  principle  of  non-intervention,  which  applied  the  obligations  of  common  honesty  and  fair  dealing between individuals, to our transactions with other governments, has, with a view to the extension of the area of slavery,  given  place  to  the  detestable  doctrine  that  national  convenience  forms  a  sufficient  justification  for  a forcible  appropriation  to  our  own  use  of  a  foreign  territory  and  its  people;  and  in  accordance  with  which doctrine,  countenance  and  encouragement  have  been  given  to  the  lawless  invasion  of  such  territory,  and  the most barbarous and cruel robbery and murder of its unoffending inhabitants.  The power of congress to exclude slavery  from  the  territories  of  the  United  States,  which  had  been  exercised  without  question,  by  frequent  and repeated  enactments  from  the  foundation  of  the  government  down  to  1848,  has  been  recently  declared  to  be without  the  pale  of  the  constitution,  and  the  extraordinary  doctrine  is  now  promulgated  that  the  constitution itself  legalizes  slavery  in  the  territories,  and  that  congress  has  consequently  no  authority  to  prevent  its introduction.    This  doctrine  of  the  present  executive  of  the  general  government  is  sought  to  be  confirmed  and established  by  the  opinions  of  a  majority  of  the  judges  of  the  supreme  court  of  the  United  States  the  highest judicial  tribunal  of  our  country.    Of  these  opinions  of  the  judges  the  legislature  of  this  state  at  the  last  session expressed  by  resolutions  their  decided  condemnation,  in  which  condemnation  I  fully  concur.    With  a  strong habitual  reverence  for  judicial  authority, when  exercised within  its  appropriate  sphere  for  the  determination  of individual rights, I confess I have not a high regard for it when sought to be extended to political questions.  The history  of  our  parent  country  furnishes  many  examples  of  judges,  learned  and  eminent,  whose  extra-judicial opinions were sought and obtained by the government for the purpose of crushing out the rising spirit of liberty among  the  people.    Indeed,  for  the  character  of  the  judicial  ermine,  it  is  to  be  lamented  that  judges,  of distinguished  legal  attainments,  have  often  been  found  giving  countenance  to  oppression  and  wrong  by ingenious  and  fanciful  constructions,  and  that English  liberty  has  been  fixed  upon  its  present  firm  foundations, not  by  the  aid  of  judicial  efforts,  but  by  overcoming  them.    There  is  reason  to  hope  that  the  extra-judicial opinions  of  the majority  of  the  judges  in  the Dred  Scott  case,  contrary  as  they  are  to  the  plain  language  of  the constitution,  to  the  facts  of  history,  and  to  the  dictates  of  common  humanity,  will  meet  the  fate  which  has attended  those  of  the  judges  in  the  parent  country,  and  that  liberty  will  be  eventually  established  in  spite  of them. The extraordinary persevering exertions which, during the past year, have been made by the chief magistrate of  the nation  to prevent  the people of Kansas  from excluding  slavery  from  their  soil, by  imposing upon  them  a constitution  which  he  well  knew  they  loathed  and  abhorred,  furnishes  new  and  alarming  evidence  of  the aggressive  character  of  the  slave  power  which  controlled  him,  and  shows  that  the  principles  of  justice  and  of popular  sovereignty  stand  no  more  in  the  way  of  its  demands  for  political  domination  than  do  those  of  the constitution.   The near approach  to  success, by congressional  legislation, of  this attempt  to  stifle  the will of  the great  majority  of  the  people  of  Kansas,  is  calculated  to  excite  strong  distrust  in  the  continued  success  of  our republican  institutions;  for  if  the  principles  of  right  and  justice,  by  the  influence  of  government  patronage  and party  discipline,  can  be  thus  outraged  and  overcome,  our  boasted  democracy  will  be  but  another  name  for despotism.    It  is,  however,  matter  of  just  pride  and  congratulation,  that  these  efforts  to  impose  a  slave constitution  on  an  unwilling  people,  have  as  yet  proved  unsuccessful,  and  that  the  people  of  that  rich  and growing  territory,  boldly  defying  the  threats  of  executive  power  and  nobly  spurning  the  offered  bribes  of government  patronage  and  lands,  have,  by  an  overwhelming majority,  declared  their  love  of  freedom  and  their abhorrence  of  slavery.    The  people  of  Vermont,  mindful  of  the  history  of  its  early  settlers  in  their  struggle against  injustice  and  oppression  from  without,  have  deeply  sympathized  in  the  extraordinary  and  protracted sufferings  of  the  people  of  Kansas  in  the  cause  of  liberty  and  right,  and  now  greet  them  on  the  favorable prospect of a happy and successful termination of their patriotic labors. But I must now bring  this communication, which has already occupied more space  than I had  intended,  to a close.    In  the  exercise  of  the  extensive  powers,  both  of  appointment  and  legislation,  with  which  you  are entrusted,  I  have  no  reason  to  doubt  that  you  will  be  guided  by  a  sincere  desire  to  promote  the  happiness  and welfare of the people; and bring with you from all parts of the state an intimate knowledge of their situation and wants,  I cannot but anticipate that the result of the labors of the session, which you are now about commencing, will be favorable to your constituents and honorable to yourselves. }  EXECUTIVE CHAMBER,      Montpelier, Oct. 15, 1858    HILAND HALL.