Inaugural address of  Howard B. Dean   As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1993  Thursday, January 7, 1993. Inaugural Address  “Madame President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, members of the General Assembly, and honored guests and friends: “I  am  pleased  to  recognize  so  many  familiar  faces  here  today,  and  to  welcome  the  large  number  of  new legislators. “A year ago when I came before you, Vermont’s unemployment rate was 7.1%. Sixty-three  thousand Vermonters, many of  them children, had no health  insurance. The state was carrying a budget deficit of $57 million, and we were in the second year of the worst recession since 1929. “Yet last January, the Legislature, Democrats and Republicans alike, put aside partisan differences and went to work for the good of all Vermonters. “Today, despite another year of grim recession in Vermont and around the nation, the unemployment rate is 5.8%.  We  have  moved  to  reduce  the  number  of  uninsured  Vermonters,  with  coverage  available  to  virtually every child  in  the state. We will pay off  the deficit  this year. We have been persistent  in our hard work, and we have worked together. “The 1992 Legislature passed a health-care reform bill, one of the most far-reaching in the nation. This year, most  action  on  universal  health  care  will  take  place  at  the  federal  level,  but  in  Vermont,  the  Health  Care Authority  and others  continue  to develop  the  two proposals  for  a practical universal health  care plan  to present to you next year. “I  will  do  all  I  can  to  maintain  the  relationship  between  providers,  patients,  the  business  community  and others with such a huge stake in our success. “We must set an example for the federal government, and show that a state can provide health care for all its citizens  with  tough  controls  on  costs  without  relying  on  the  kind  of  bureaucratic  approaches  used  in Washington. “I hope that every legislator will keep the reform goal prominently in mind as we prepare for the second half of this biennium. “Last  year’s  General  Assembly  also  passed  sweeping  civil  rights  legislation  that  protects  all  Vermonters against  discrimination.  You  passed  a  family  leave  bill  that  will  serve  as  the  nation’s  model  when  Congress enacts a federal bill under the leadership of President-elect Clinton. “And the Legislature approved a level-funded budget, Vermont’s first in 20 years, proving that it is possible to balance the budget while maintaining Vermont historic commitment to a social agenda that is the hallmark of an activist government. “On  top  of  all  that,  the  Legislature  performed  like  no  other  in  the  country.  Your  first  act,  recognizing Vermont’s financial situation, was to cut legislative pay. You adjourned in April for the first time in eight years, and you worked a week at the end of the session without pay. “We are now  in  the  third year of  the worst national  recession  since 1929. Next week  I am going  to propose to  you  another  level-funded  budget.  When  it  is  passed,  Vermont  will  have  adopted  three  consecutive  budgets with the same basic appropriation. “This will allow us to sunset on schedule the tax increases approved in 1991. “I ask this Legislature to continue the process that we began last year. If you do, by the end of April we will have  made  almost  $70  million  in  spending  cuts  from  the  deficit  repayment  plan  I  inherited  when  I  became governor. “But  I also ask you  to be as aggressive and as successful as  the 1992 Legislature  in addressing  the needs of children  and  in  looking  at  investments  in  prevention  programs.  We  cannot  abandon  our  responsibility  to  be leaders simply because we have a level-funded budget. “The  first  assignment  is  the  economy—and  jobs.  We  must  get  Vermont  moving  again,  to  retain  jobs  and restore jobs to those who lost them over the past three years. Economists  and  the  business  community  know  that  the  number  of  jobs  in Vermont’s manufacturing  sector has been declining since 1985, as it has been all over the United States.  “I  have  always  believed  that  in  a  small  state  of  560,000  people,  the  best way  to  combat  the  recession  is  to encourage businesses that are already here to expand. “The Economic Progress Act, which I bring before you, responds to Vermonters who need jobs. “The  proposal  is  part  of  a  long-range  strategy,  built  on  the  leadership  of  legislators who  have worked with my administration and others to redirect Vermont’s economic future. “The Economic Progress Act  includes  two  types of  tax credits: one  for  creating new  jobs,  and  the other  for capital investment in machinery, buildings or other fixed assets. There are minimum activity levels for each. “Broad-based  tax  credits  in  other  states  have  produced  mixed  results.  The  bold  approach  we  propose— targeted,  time-specific  credits—has not been  tried  elsewhere.  I believe  it’s  time  to get  serious  about  supporting manufacturing in Vermont, and it’s time for a new approach. “I  also  propose  to  eliminate  tax  credits  to  the  Vermont  Venture  Capital  Fund.    We  must  not  be  afraid  to eliminate programs that have failed to result in investment and job growth in Vermont. “The  Economic  Progress  Act  also  targets  start-ups  or  expansions  of  smaller  businesses.  The  Vermont Financial  Assistance  Program  will  provide  partial  guarantees  of  bank  business  loans  judged  too  risky  in  a recessionary economy. “Any business  located  in Vermont with annual sales of  less  than $5 million would qualify for consideration of loan guarantees. “We  anticipate  that  more  flexible  eligibility  requirements  will  open  the  door  to  many  solid  business  ideas that never materialized for lack of start-up money. “In addition, the act will: —Increase  marketing  efforts  for  Vermont  goods,  including  wood  products,  by  the  departments  of Agriculture and Economic Development. —Coordinate transportation expenditures in areas targeted for economic investments. —Expand  the  Vermont  Industrial  Development  Authority’s  loan  portfolio  to  include  financial  services  in addition  to manufacturing,  agricultural  and  tourist/recreational  projects. To  reflect  this  broader  jurisdiction, we propose renaming it the Vermont Economic Development Authority. —Launch a pilot program to help business buy and install advanced pollution control equipment. —Provide a sales  tax exemption on fuel used  in manufacturing  to companies  that meet energy conservation goals. —Create an ombudsman position to work on development permit issues for specific projects. “We  will  strengthen  job  training  programs,  propose  tax  changes  to  reinforce  Vermont’s  position  in  the captive  insurance  industry,  increase  support  to  regional  development  corporations,  and  continue  to  upgrade interstate rest areas. “In addition,  I am appointing an advisory council on workers compensation  issues,  to  tackle a problem  that has been a growing  threat  to businesses and employees here and across  the nation.  In some states,  the  issue has polarized executive and legislative branches. “We began with an ad hoc panel that met over the autumn months. I learned from that effort that we need to work even harder to unsnarl the knotty problems of paying for the program and for protecting worker’s rights. “And  I  intend,  as  I  promised  several  months  ago,  to  seek  legislation  clarifying  the  liability  of  banks  and other lenders for environmental damage or contamination to properties on which they hold mortgages. “Without  this  clarification, Vermont  businesses  and  individuals  could  find  lenders  reluctant  to  loan money for fear that property loans could make them liable for the cost of cleaning up yet-undiscovered pollution. Over  the  next  two  years,  as  companies  make  decisions  on  investing  and  reinvesting  in  Vermont,  I  believe the Economic Progress Act can begin to turn our manufacturing sector around. If successful, we will once again be a national leader, this time in attracting jobs. “Unless we balance  the budget and make new  jobs possible, we cannot pay  for  the programs so many of us care about so deeply in education, human services and environmental protection. “It  is  time  that  we  move  beyond  the  notion  that  the  concerns  for  environment  and  business  are  opposites. We must learn to talk about jobs and the environment, not jobs or the environment. “In  a  real  sense,  I  have  done  that.  For  years,  Vermont’s  governors  have  had  a  Council  of  Economic Advisors. I do, too. I also, however, have a Council of Environmental Advisors, which I created last year. “In  the  autumn,  representatives  of  both  panels  began  meeting  together,  to  discuss  how  to  bridge  the  gap between business and environmental groups. We think we have made progress. It is the work of these combined groups that I recommend to you and which has resulted in our proposed changes in the Act 250 permit process. “Vermont  is making  the  difficult  transition  from  cutting-edge  environmentalism  to  building  the  capacity  to enforce and implement the environmental legacy of the ‘80s. “There are steps we can and must take to make Vermont more attractive for business. “Twenty-three  years  ago,  a  governor  stood where  I  do  this  afternoon,  and  challenged  that  new Legislature. He said, and I quote: “Ask the average Vermonter what kind of Vermont he wants in 1980 or 1990. I believe he will tell you that while he wants good economic opportunities  for his children, good  schools, good highways and an opportunity to  live  his  own  life  he  will  then  tell  you  that  the  things  he  cherishes  more  than  anything  else  are  those  sights which we see almost daily here in our Green Mountains—the deer playing in the field, the beautiful countryside we  see  as  we  ride  the  interstate  between  Montpelier  and  Burlington,  the  beautiful  ride  down  the  West  River from  Jamaica  to Brattleboro,  the  view  of  the Green Mountain  skyline  from Morrisville  or  Johnson  or  the  view of Lake Memphremagog when  the  sun  comes up  in  the morning and Lake Champlain when  it  sets  again  in  the evening. “‘These are the things that bring Vermonters back home after they have seen other parts of the world … The question  is,  my  friends,  can  we  preserve  it?  Do  we  have  the  will  to  go  about  preserving  it?  Can  we  have economic growth without destroying the other part of our dream—the pastoral scene?” These words were spoken by Governor Deane C. Davis  in January of 1970. The 1970 Legislature answered his  questions  by  approving Act  250.  I  have  no  intention  of  being  the  governor who  allowed  the  dismantling  of Act 250 and the destruction of our natural heritage. The governor’s responsibility goes beyond jobs or health care or even children’s issues. The most important obligation  is  to  preserve  the  quality  of  life  that  makes  the  Vermont  community  so  different  than  that  in  any other state, and serves as a model and a dream for the rest of America. “We wrote the pioneering environmental laws in the ‘70s and ‘80s.  In the ‘90s, we must make them work. “Let me give you an example:  In  the past year, we  shut down more  than 40 unlined  landfills, as  I promised in  1991  that  we  would.  These  closures  were  accomplished  without  bankrupting  Vermonters  and  without wholesale disruptions of services. “There  are  delays  in  environmental  permitting,  but  most  are  due  not  to  the  laws  but  to  how  they  are interpreted  and  administered. The Agency  of Natural Resources  is working with  the Environmental Board  and the  Water  Resources  Board  to  review  all  permit  processes  within  their  jurisdiction.  I  intend  to  work  with  the Legislature this year and the next to improve the permit process. “I will continue  to work very hard  for conservation.  I again challenge  this body  to  support  the Housing and Conservation Trust Fund, which makes housing available  to working Vermonters  shut out of  the market by  the tremendous increases in real estate prices of the ‘80s, and which will preserve our beautiful surroundings. “There will be other pieces of legislation I will ask you to pass this year. They include an omnibus crime bill with anti-stalking legislation as a centerpiece. “We will be proposing  agricultural  legislation based upon  the work of  the Vermont Maple Task Force,  and seeking to expand marketing of Vermont products by the Department of Agriculture. “The experience of a large convenience store chain has shown us that it is time to revise dairy bonding laws to allow our farmers to get paid what they’re owed. “We  will  finance  another  round  of  the  very  successful  bicycle  path  and  greenway  program  run  by  the Agency of Transportation. “Why  do  Vermonters  pay  so  much  attention  to  their  environment?  And  why  are  we  so  determined  to improve  our  economy?  The  common  denominator  in  both  cases,  I  believe,  is  our  sense  of  obligation  to  our children. Perhaps the most vital part of my legislative package relates to children. After  adjustment  for  inflation,  the median  income  for  families with  children  has  actually  declined  over  the last decade by 5% nationally and by about 10% in Vermont. This is partly a consequence of lower real incomes and partly due to divorces and births to unmarried women. “Children  are  the  poorest  age  group  in America.  In  1991,  nearly  22%  of  all  of America’s  children  lived  in poverty. That percentage is nearly twice as high as that of any other age group. “While  national  statistics  suggest  that Vermont  does  better  than  the  rest  of  the United  States  in  taking  care of its children, the way we treat children in America is an embarrassment. “We  can  and we will  do  better.    Investment  in  children  and  their  families  is  the  only way  I  know  to  break the  cycle  of  dependency  on  government  spending  that  is  aimed  almost  exclusively  at  fixing  problems,  not preventing them. “We  have  made  tremendous  progress  with  Success  by  Six,  the  early  intervention  program  for  kids  we introduced last year. “The progress  came  about  through  cooperation between  the Agency of Human Services,  the Department of Education, local school officials, teachers, parents and child-care centers. “In Morrisville,  this  combination  produced  a  pilot  program  to  support  families  from  prenatal  care  through birth and early childhood so that their children are ready to learn when they enter school, and are supported after they get to school. “In  my  budget  address  I  will  talk  further  about  education  and  the  need  to  support  kids  once  they  get  to school “Other  communities  are  initiating  programs  to  help  prepare  children  for  school.  I  will  ask  you  to  fund  our Healthy  Babies  program,  which  will  allow  doctors  and  nurses  to  identify  families  at  risk  before  their  children are even born. That will mean we can adapt the Morrisville approach to other communities. “In addition, we will be developing a proposal we call Success Beyond Six that will help school districts hire human services providers  to deal  in school with children whose special needs now are taxing the capabilities of teachers and principals. “It is no coincidence that so many people who need help as adults had troubled or difficult childhoods. That is  why  welfare  reform  is  so  important  to  me. My  commitment  to  welfare  reform  is  based  upon  the  belief  that strengthening  the  family—helping  parents  break  out  of  welfare  dependency—will  provide  new  hope  and  new expectations for their children and for themselves. “The education and skills,  transportation, day care and other social support services  included  in our welfare reform  package  are  aimed  at  providing  families  with  the  tools  to  work,  to  add  to  their  incomes,  and  to  build themselves a better future. “Over  the  past  half-century, we  have  created,  despite  best  intentions,  a  paternalistic  system  that  singles  out some families in society and treats them differently than most others. Society requires most Americans to work, but we have discouraged welfare recipients from doing that. “We can eliminate the discrimination that occurs against low-income people by accepting that work is more than a way of bringing home dollars. It enhances self-esteem, reinforcing a sense of self that is passed on to our children. Welfare reform is pro-family and, most importantly, pro-children. “I  believe  in  general  that  government  spends  too  much  money  trying  to  fix  problems  after  they  have occurred and not nearly enough trying to prevent those problems. “This state,  in  fact  the entire country, must shift  its  focus  to  long-range  investments  in children,  intended  to prevent damage from occurring in the first place. “If  we  fail  to  do  this,  in  20  years,  another  governor  will  stand  before  this  assembly  explaining,  as  I  must next week, why  corrections  spending  has  to  go  up  17  percent  in  a  level-funded  budget,  causing  us  to  cut  other areas in human services and education during a deep recession. “In  our  Cabinet  meeting  on  Monday,  one  of  the  agency  secretaries  asked  me  what  I  hoped  we  would accomplish, and what my worst fears for the legislative session were. “I  told  him  that my worst  fear was  that  the  Legislature would  not  fund  the  children’s  programs  that  I  have asked you  to  fund. We have an opportunity here  that  is unique  in  the United States of America. The politicians of this country traditionally try to solve long-term problems with short-term solutions. “I am asking you  today, and  I will be asking you again next week when  I present  the new budget,  to  take a small  percentage  of  the  money  that  we  spend  on  human  services  and  education  and  invest  it  in  prevention programs for our children now. “I am asking you,  in a year of great cuts, and wholesale elimination of programs,  for adequate  funding of a new  program.  If  you  fail  to  do  this,  we  will  never  break  the  cycle  of  supplying  short-term  solutions  for  long-term problems. “Your success will be measured 15 to 20 years from now, with less out-of-state placements for emotionally-disturbed  children,  fewer  children  going  through  SRS  and  foster  care,  with  a  much  higher  school  completion rate, and a much lower incarceration rate. “We have a  remarkable opportunity and we have a  remarkable obligation. Your opportunity  is  to show  that in Vermont, we can do things differently. “Your  obligation  is  to  deliver  for  the  8,000  children  who  will  be  born  in  Vermont  this  year,  so  that  those children  who  need  services  and  who  are  born  into  families  that  need  help  will  have  a  better  chance  of  fully participating in tomorrow’s life. “I  welcome  the  opportunity  to  work  with  you.  I  consider  these  proposals  to  be  a  beginning,  and  not  an ending.  I  took  forward  to  what  I  know  are  going  to  be  excellent  suggestions  for  improvements  that  you  will make as you go to work on them. “This  is  important work  for us—but  it will be  far more  important  for  those who  are  children now,  and who in one more generation will be sitting in the seats we now occupy. “You have my gratitude for helping to continue our partnership.