Inaugural address of  James H. Douglas  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  2003    Thursday, January 9, 2003 Inaugural Address Governor Douglas then presented the following remarks. “Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, Members of the General Assembly, distinguished guests, fellow Vermonters: “Today we begin anew as we celebrate our past and look forward to the future. “Nearly  11  and  a  half  years  ago,  a  young  physician  received  a  phone  call  informing  him  of  the  untimely death  of  a  governor  who  had  come  to  personify  Vermont.   He  finished  the  examination,  put  down  his stethoscope, removed his lab coat and traveled to Montpelier to take the oath that would transform him from an untested part-time lieutenant, into captain of the ship of state. “Today, like his predecessor, that doctor-Governor has come to exemplify Vermont.  He will be remembered as a competent, compassionate and forthright leader who always sought to do right by the people.  On behalf of a grateful state, thank you, Howard Dean, for your two decades of service to Vermont. “No one could be standing here today without the support of a loving family.  Thank you, Mom and Dad, my two  sons, Matt  and Andrew,  and  thank you  especially  to Dorothy  for your  steadfast  support  and  for all of your sacrifices.   *** “We  have  traveled  a  great  distance  since  the  first  Vermont  government  met  in  March  1778.   At  that  time, there were no laws, no taxes, no agencies or departments, just a people determined to live free and by their own values. “Our very right to exist was challenged not only by the British, but by Revolutionary America itself.  Within a  few  short  years,  however,  the  people  of Vermont  had  not  only  secured  our  right  to  exist,  but we were  being welcomed  as  the  fourteenth  star on  the  flag  of  a nation  that would  come  to be known  as  the greatest beacon of liberty in human history. “In the 225 years since that first government met we have faced many challenges.  War has visited the Green Mountains  on  two  occasions.   National  recessions  periodically  depleted  our  resources  and,  temporarily,  our aspirations.  Natural disasters,  like  the 1927  flood, devastated  the  state, but  reinforced our  commitment  to  each other. “We  have  responded  to  our  greatest  challenges,  not  by  putting  aside  our  differences,  but  by  building  on  our common  understandings.   Seeking  that  common  understanding  was  what  Vermont’s  founders  called  civic virtue.   “I  am  a  graduate  of  this  House.   Thirty  years  ago  this  week  I  took  my  seat  as  a  representative  from Middlebury.  America was  in  the midst  of  a  long  and  divisive war,  and  a  presidency was  crumbling  under  the weight of scandal inspired by politics run awry.  But here, tucked among the rolling hills of Vermont, under this dome, men and women of good will met, and progress triumphed over partisanship. “I  pledge  to  you  that  I will  carry  on  the Vermont  tradition  of  civic  virtue.   I will  be  a willing  listener  and  a reasonable  partner.   My  intentions  will  be  sincere,  my  word  will  be  my  bond,  and  while  we  may  not  always agree on approach, our goals are shared.   “We are confronted today with challenges of great proportions. *** “The people have tasked us with bridging our differences to meet common ideals.  Chief among those ideals is restoring the hope, opportunity, and dignity that come with a good and secure job.  “An  extended  economic  slowdown  has  indiscriminately  cast  thousands  of  Vermonters  into  unemployment, and  a  cloud  of  uncertainty  lingers  on  the  horizon  as  our  economy  teeters  precariously  between  recession  and recovery.  For too many of our neighbors, high hopes have turned to deep concerns, and the bright promise of a new century has been dimmed by anxiety about the future. “Making  recovery more  difficult  is  the  reputation Vermont  has  earned  as  a  particularly  challenging  place  to do  business  and  create  jobs.   This  is  a  burden  not  borne  for  long  by  large  employers.   They  can  always  find someplace else eager to accommodate them.   “But  the  burden  that  large  businesses  can  escape  falls  hard  on  small  businesses,  and  especially  on  the working men and women of this state who have few options.  They can uproot their families and follow the jobs – and many have – or they can wait for a change – and many do. “And so my message to the people of Vermont is, change begins today – not change for the sake of change, but change for the sake of progress.   “The change  I have called  for, and which  the people have affirmed, will not come overnight.  My vision  for Vermont’s  economic  future  is  not  one  of  quick  fixes  or  government  gimmicks.   It  is  one  of  careful consideration, common  sense planning and prioritizing, and a new  role  for government  that puts power back  in the hands of people.    “After all, government does not create  jobs; people do.  But government can encourage economic growth by fostering an environment that welcomes job creation, bolsters business, promotes commerce and serves people. *** “Conditions  such  as  the  ones we  face  today  require  that we  take  a  close  look  at what we  can  do  to  improve not  only  the  economy,  but  also  the  government.   Tough  times  like  these  reveal  where  government’s  good intentions can fall short of sound and sustainable budgeting. “Fiscal  responsibility means not only planning  for  today, but  also planning  for an uncertain  tomorrow.  And so we  are  rightly  charged  not  only with  addressing  today’s  afflictions,  but we  are morally  obligated  to  address impending deficits that will burden our children if we do nothing.  We must begin to act now. “In  two weeks  I will propose a budget  that will avert a deficit  that would delay  recovery and  threaten  future prosperity.  It will also begin to slow the planned growth of government in future years which, left unrestrained, would endanger programs critical to the most vulnerable among us.  “The greatest  threat  to  these  important programs  is not  from  those who would  restrain  them, but  from  those who would allow them to grow so big that they collapse under the burden of their own weight. “I reserve the bulk of my remarks on the budget and other subjects until later this month, but let me be clear:  the choices ahead will not be easy.   “I would also remind you that state government is not alone in facing tough times.  Thousands of Vermont’s families  have  to  balance  their  budgets  despite  less  income,  and  they  expect  us  to  as well; we must  not  bend  to the temptation of dipping even further into their pocketbooks to do it.   *** “As  we  begin  the  task  of  putting  Vermonters  back  to  work,  let  us  take  stock  of  our  assets.   We  have  two great economic advantages – our natural environment and Vermonters themselves. “Generations  of  Vermonters  have  been  blessed  by  a  landscape  that  nourishes  the  soul.   We  are  a  leader among states and nations in protecting the quality of our water and air, and we will continue in that role. “There  are  some,  sincere  but  misguided,  who  would  have  us  believe  that  jobs  exist  at  the  expense  of  the environment.   There  are  others,  equally  sincere  and  equally  misguided,  who  believe  that  environmental protection comes at the expense of economic progress.   “However,  the choice we face  today  is not a choice between  jobs or  the environment.  It  is a choice between both or neither.   “I  believe  in  a  third way  -- The Vermont Way  --  that  recognizes  the  codependence  of  our  economy  and  our environment.  My administration will work on behalf of each so that we may improve on both.   *** “President Coolidge spoke of the Vermont appeal when at Bennington he made these memorable remarks: “I love Vermont because of her hills and valleys, her scenery and  invigorating climate, but most of all, because of her indomitable people.” “It is the people of Vermont who represent our greatest hope and best opportunity for a brighter tomorrow. “It  is  the construction worker,  the nurse,  the  firefighter and  the  farmer,  the  teacher and  the student on whose foundation we  prepare  to  build  a  future  of  prosperity.  Our  people  are  blessed with  creative minds,  industrious hands, common sense and a determined spirit.  “I  will  seek  their  guidance,  rely  on  their  wisdom  and  trust  in  their  judgment.   I  will  listen  to  them,  and  in order  to  get  our  state  back  on  track,  I  will  invest  in  them  --  in  their  education,  in  their  skills  and  in  their entrepreneurial spirit.   “The moment is fitting to remind ourselves that as officers of government we are servants of the people, one and  all;  that  our  authority  is  derived  from  them,  and  therefore,  as  our  Constitution  demands,  we  are  “at  all times…accountable to them.” “I  shall  instruct  all  who  serve  in  my  administration  of  the  same  as  we  endeavor  toward  government  that works with you, not against you; a government that serves as an ally, not an adversary.  “I will seek  to change  the culture of government  from one  that  is so attached  to  the status quo  it  resists even those changes that will move us forward, to one that embraces positive change. *** “We are in the infancy of an era of technological progress that has changed the way the world does business.  Government,  too,  must  change  the  way  it  does  business.   We  must  better  utilize  technology  to  improve  the convenience and accessibility of government  services.  Across  the government, we can do more  so Vermonters can save time by being online rather than in line. “Vermont’s economy has been slow  to make  the  transition  to  the 21st Century.  We have not  fully embraced advances that make it possible for Vermonters to operate in a diverse, high-wage economy, even while working from the most remote corner of the Northeast Kingdom. “Cutting-edge  clean  technologies  have  sprouted  businesses  that  do  not  compete  with  the  environment,  but rather compete with each other to achieve a cleaner environment.  Welcoming these businesses to Vermont, and encouraging  their  innovation  and  growth  will  allow  us  to  promote  Vermont  values  around  the  nation,  and indeed around the world.  “We must  embrace  innovation  all  around  us.   Creative  ideas  can  expand  access  to  affordable  health  care  to every  Vermonter;  improve  quality,  comfort,  and  convenience,  while  giving  patients  and  doctors  more  control over health care decisions. “New approaches can improve our schools while increasing the role of parents in their children’s education.  Working  families  need  to  know  that  their  young  children  will  have  the  early  care  and  education  they  need  to thrive.  And they need to know that their kids are getting a truly equal opportunity at success. “Act  60  promised  equal  educational  opportunity  for  every  child  while  reducing  property  taxes.   Instead, many  of  our  children  are  still  not  receiving  the  education  their  parents  are  paying  for,  even  as  property  taxes continue to skyrocket. “We need to work together to find a better solution – a solution that recognizes the importance of money, but also  recognizes  that  our  commitment  to  equal  educational  opportunity  is  not  fulfilled  by  funding  formulas, sharing pools and block grants. “If we  are  serious  about  every  child  attending  a  safe  and  drug-free  school;  every  child  having  access  to  the best teachers and the best curriculum; if we are serious about accountability; if we are serious about every child having an equal chance, shouldn’t every parent have an equal choice?   “My  administration will  seek  to  unleash  the  pent  up  creative  energies  of  a  people  frustrated  by  unnecessary barriers  to  opportunity.   We  will  start  by  fixing  a  broken  permitting  system  that  has  become  too  costly, duplicative, unpredictable and often times contradictory, not by weakening our commitment to the environment, but by strengthening our commitment to common sense.   “When  we  speak  of  economic  progress  let  us  not  forget  the  industry  upon  which  Vermont  was  built  and which,  in  a  changing  economy,  we  have  too  long  neglected.   Let  us  renew  our  commitment  to  the  family farmers who have contributed so much  to Vermont’s character and whose  lives are dedicated  to  feeding others, but who now struggle to sustain themselves.   *** “I have spoken about ways to expand opportunity for Vermonters.  But today hope and opportunity are being destroyed by the insidious effects of hard-core drugs.  By now, we’ve all heard of families and lives torn apart by drugs.  I am reminded of “Sarah,” a 19-year-old Vermonter who died of a heroin overdose.  Sarah was a typical kid with big plans for the future.  She was working two jobs with plans to go to college and eventually open a business of her own.  “But alcohol, then marijuana and cocaine clouded her horizons.  Before long, heroin found Sarah, and the sun set on what was once a promising life. “For a moment, I want you to think not just of Sarah, but of your own children and what could happen if they meet  the  wrong  person  on  a  particularly  tough  day.   Sarah’s  story  isn’t  the  story  of  just  one  girl,  but  of  a growing number of Vermont’s young people. “We must do more to protect our children from the life-destroying effects of these drugs.  Some of it is tough love,  and  some  of  it  is  just  plain  love.  We  will  address  addiction  with  a  compassionate  program  of  treatment and rehabilitation.  And we will educate kids about the dangers of drug abuse so they will have the strength and courage to reject them. “But  we  will  also  aggressively  combat  those  who  would  seek  to  poison  our  children  for  profit.   All  drug dealers will know that they are unwelcome on our streets, in our neighborhoods, around our schools – anywhere in our state. *** “With change comes great opportunity.  But we must also fiercely defend the values that are woven deep into the fabric of our state. “The best of Vermont is the product of those unchanging ideals of family, faith, freedom and unity.  “There  is  little  government  can  do  that  can match  the  compassion  of  the  family;  nothing  it  can  do  to match the power of faith.   “For  freedom,  generations  of  Vermonters  have  fought  heroically  at  home  and  abroad  --  at  home  to  gain independence  and  end  slavery;  abroad  to  defeat  totalitarianism  and  fascism;  and  today,  across  the  globe,  to vanquish  evil  and  terror.   To  the  men  and  women  who  loyally  guard  our  freedom,  we  thank  you  for  your courage and sacrifice.   “While  Ethan  Allen  and  the  Green  Mountain  Boys  made  famous  Vermonters’  attachment  to  individual freedom and liberty, we are united in our common concern for the most vulnerable among us. “Our rural nature has always instilled in Vermonters an independent spirit, but it has also encouraged a sense of  obligation  to  neighbors  in  need.   We  are  proud  to  do  for  ourselves  all  that  we  can,  and  eager  to  aid  others where they cannot. “Around  our  state,  dedicated  Vermonters  work  together  to  heal  the  sick,  feed  the  hungry,  and  protect  the weak.   “These  times call  for a  renewed sense of service  to  the community, and  there  is plenty  for everyone  to do.   I ask all Vermonters to dedicate more of their time and talent to worthy causes.   “Nor  shall we  in  this  chamber  forget  our  obligations  to  do  for  others  those  necessary  things  they  cannot  do for themselves.   “Let our own examples here restore faith in government as a noble calling, and inspire other honest, wise and good citizens to public service. “The challenges ahead are difficult.  In some areas, progress will be slow, but it is certain.   “And  so  today we  celebrate  a  new  beginning  and  begin  to  implement  the  change  for which  the  people  have called.  We will keep what has worked, discard what has failed, rein in our excesses and proceed forward with a bold agenda of renewal. *** “When I arose  today,  it was cold and dark.  The sun had not yet reached the eastern shores of New England, nor begun its climb over the Green Mountains.   “As  I  have  for  the  past  30  years,  I  traveled  through  the morning  darkness  on  the  journey  from my  home  in Middlebury over Appalachian Gap to Montpelier. “As  I  began  to  wind  along  the  mountain  road  the  darkness  slowly  waned  and  pine  boughs  emerged  from under  a  shroud of  snow.  Not  even  the  frost of winter  could dim  the  color of our hills or  restrain  the advancing dawn. “So  long  as we  serve,  so  long  as we  strive,  so  long  as we have  the  courage  to  lead,  the promise of Vermont will  remain  ever  green.   Our  promise  will  be  strengthened  by  the  seasons  –  through  the  bitter  winters  and  the brilliant mornings – and made eternal in the sacrifice we share.    “Together,  and  with  God’s  help,  we  shall  meet  the  challenges  ahead,  as  we  have  all  others,  so  we  may welcome a springtime of hope and a blossoming of opportunity to this “brave little state of Vermont.” “Thank you.”