Inaugural address of  John E. Weeks  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1929 Thursday, January 10, 1929 Inaugural Message  Members of the General Assembly: As  the  General  Assembly  of  the  State  of  Vermont  once  again  convenes  in  regular  session  for  deliberation upon  the  Commonwealths  legislative  problems,  it  seems  fitting  to  pause  for  a  moment  in  retrospective contemplation  of  the  activities  of  the  past  administration,  an  administration  which,  owing  to  unforeseen circumstances  imposed  by  the  will  of  the Maker,  has  been  fraught  with  many  difficult  problems.  The  disaster which  came  upon  the  State  created  unusual  demands.  It  taxed  the  resources,  the  courage  and  the  faith  of  our people, and necessitated activities far beyond the regular routine of the customary state administration program. The  emergency  caused  by  the  devastating  flood  of November,  1927,  affected  all  branches  of  state  activity, and placed additional burdens  responsibilities and demands upon all departments of our state government. That great  emergency was met  by  our  people  and  our  government with  one  common motive —  a  resolve  to  restore our Commonwealth so damaged on that eventful November day — and since that time the common watchword has  been  progress  and  rehabilitation.  The  true  Vermont  spirit  was  vividly  exemplified  by  our  indomitable courage in a time of adversity and the faith and valor of Vermonters has turned catastrophe into opportunity.  When  the  legislature  adjourned  two  years  ago  it  trusted  to  the  administration  a  program  of  highway development  unique  in  Vermont  state  policies.  That  responsibility  was  accepted  by  the  administration  and  the highway  department,  and  the work was  undertaken with  the  aim  and  purpose  of  discharging  the  responsibility and  fulfilling  the pledge. Gratifying progress  resulted  in pursuing  the 40 — mile program during  that  first year of  endeavor.  State  departments  were  rendering  valuable  service  to  the  people  of  Vermont  by  functioning  with efficiency  and  loyalty. Conditions were,  fine,  excellent  in  all  branches  of  governmental  endeavor,  presenting  a most encouraging outlook for development and progress.  Then  swiftly  and  ruthlessly  came  the  flood  to  terrify  our  people,  to  inflict  irreparable  damages  and  to paralyze  that  progress  which  had  seemed  so  secure  and  so  prophetic  of  our  future  development.  The  dramatic narrative  of  how  Vermonters  dauntlessly  bent  to  the  burdensome  tasks  before  them  is  widely  known  and  has been rehearsed in verse and story in every part of the country. Vermont  faced  a  dire  emergency.  Our  transportation  facilities  were  hopelessly  crippled.  Hundreds  of bridges  and  mile  upon  mile  of  highway  were  destroyed.  The  funds  at  hand  were  insufficient  to  cope  with  the serious  situation.  Therefore,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution,  I,  as  governor,  called the  Legislature  together  in  extra  session  to  provide  ways  and  means  for  reconstruction  and  to  enact  laws consistent with the needs of our towns and the State. The  special  session  convened  on  November  30,  1927,  and  in  an  historic  meeting  on  that  date  legislative action  provided  for  the  rehabilitation  of  Vermont  by  the  authorization  of  a  bond  issue  of  eight  and  one-half millions  of  dollars  ($8,500,000);  eight  millions  ($8,000,000)  being  for  the  restoration  of  our  highway transportation  system  and  five  hundred  thousand  (500,000)  for  the  rehabilitation  of  our  state  institutions  and departments which had suffered heavy damages by the flood. Through  sheer  force of determination, Vermont  energetically accepted  the challenge of  the elements and  in the  face  of  real  discouragement  commenced  the  work  of  reconstruction.  The  results  represent,  to  my  mind,  a notable  achievement  for  our  people  and  our  government.  Remarkable  progress  has  been  attained  in  the restoration  of  our  highway  and bridge  system, without  curtailment  of  our  regular program of hard  surface  road construction.  Many  of  the  scars  left  by  the  flood  have  already  been  effaced  and  today  we  stand  upon  the threshold  of  a  new  era  of  state  development. We  must  face  that  new  era  with  courage  and  faith.  In  legislative action we must be guided by  the desire  to enact  for  the good of our State and her people, ever keeping  in mind the necessity for sane judgment and fearless action. Legislation  imposes  certain  and  real  duties  upon  the members  of  the House  and  Senate  in  accordance with our  constitutional  provisions.  In  conformity  with  a  custom  long  established  I  submit  for  your  consideration some  matters  of  importance  in  connection  with  the  work  before  you  at  the  present  session  of  the  General Assembly. We  all  realize  that  progress  and  prosperity  cannot  be  crested  by  legislative  action,  but  they  may  be established  upon  a  firm  and  secure  foundation  if  sound,  proper  and  progressive  laws  are  enacted.  True prosperity  must  be  the  outcome  of  real  service,  the  grasping  of  opportunities  when  they  arise,  and  adapting conditions to a people’s needs. We  shall  prosper  agriculturally,  for  instance,  only  so  far  as  the  farmer  takes  advantage  of  the  opportunities that  have  been  placed  at  his  command.  We  shall  prosper  as  a  commonwealth  only  so  far  as  we  utilize  and employ our capabilities and our initiative in the development of our natural resources. Pernicious  and  harmful  laws  are  sometimes  passed  because  of  lack  of  proper  understanding  or  because  of too hasty consideration. Guard well against such bills, as they prove detrimental and may even work irreparable injury  to  our  State  and  our  people, There  is  legislation  to  consider  affecting  such  vital  activities  as  agriculture, forestry,  state  institutions,  education  taxation,  highways,  etc.  it  is  my  purpose  to  touch  upon  some  of  these topics, offering whatever suggestions I may have as possible aids in your deliberations. In  these  deliberations  you  must  at  no  time  fail  to  assume  the  obligations  that  are  undeniably  yours.  Foster and promulgate such measures that those gratifying results may obtain which look to the betterment of our State and  our  people.  We  should  at  all  times  and  under  all  circumstances  promote  rather  than  retard  progress  and prosperity,  to  the  end  that  all  the  people may  enjoy  the  common  blessings  that  are  inseparable  from  a  prudent, economical and honest administration of their affairs. One of  the most commendable virtues  in  life  today  is  true economy. We  face competition  in our daily  lives as  never  before.  We  earn  money  faster  and  we  spend  faster  than  has  any  generation  which  has  preceded  us. Wise economy is essential in the conduct of state business and in legislative action, if the State is to function for the  benefit  of  her  people.  We  should,  however,  regard  with  greatest  attention  the  real  needs  of  the Commonwealth,  making  sure  that  we  guard  against  an  unwise  application  of  economy  which  might  be detrimental to those needs. AGRICULTURE Agriculture,  because  it  is  the  foundation  upon  which  Vermont  prosperity  fundamentally  rests,  is  of  the utmost  concern.  During  the  past  two  years  considerable  progress  has  been  made  in  the  development  of  our agricultural  resources. Notable among  these developments  is  the work of  the bureau of markets which began  in January,  1928. Marketing  constitutes  one  of  agriculture’s  paramount  problems  today.  A marketing  program  to be  of  lasting  value must  be  developed  on  a  firm  foundation,  and  the  emphasis must  first be placed on what we are going to sell. To  this  end  the  bureau  of markets  has  been working  and  official Vermont  grades  have  been  established  for the  first  time  on  many  products.  Vermont  is  cooperating  closely  with  the  other  New  England  States  on  a uniform  marketing  program  and  the  use  of  a  New  England  marketing  label.  My  recommendations  to  the Legislature  of  1927  included  the  need  of  granting  the  Commissioner  of  Agriculture  authority  to  maintain  a distinct department under his control  to extend  the service of cooperative marketing and  to enlarge  the scope of its  activities  to  the  end  that  the  individual  farmer  may  benefit  by  higher  and  more  satisfactory  prices.  I commend the work that has been accomplished during the past year by the newly created bureau of markets and recommend that this valuable activity be continued and its scope be extended as far as possible. BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS ERADICATION The  area  test  of  cattle  should  be  continued.  In  considering  an  appropriation  for  this  purpose  it  should  be borne  in  mind  that  bovine  tuberculosis  is  a  highly  contagious  disease  spreading  constantly  and  rapidly  in infected  herds  and  the  more  energetically  this  work  is  pushed  forward  the  less  will  be  the  ultimate  cost  of complete eradication. Fifty per cent of our cattle are now under state and federal supervision. The demand is constantly increasing for  daily  products  produced  from  tuberculin  tested  cows,  Other  states  are  spending  large  sums  for  eradication and  are  becoming  more  and  more  particular  as  to  the  health  of  the  cattle  they  purchase  for  replacements. Dairying  and  the  raising  of  surplus  dairy  cattle  is  the  backbone  of  our  agriculture  and  in  order  to  hold  our markets  for  both  dairy  products  and  cattle  it  is  absolutely  essential  that  eradication  work  be  carried  forward without hesitation. EUROPEAN CORN BORER The  recent widespread  invasion of  the State by  the corn borer pest threatens  to become a  serious menace  to the  corn  growing  industry.  Nearly  every  county  is  affected  by  this  scourge,  and  great  diligence  should  be exercised  to  check  its  advance  by  the  adoption  of  such  control  measures  as  have  proved  effective  in  other localities, as the corn crop is one of great value to our State. FORESTRY The flood of last year has made all the more mindful of the importance of keeping our mountainous and non agricultural  regions  productive  of  forest  growth.  Forests  may  not  prevent  floods  during  periods  of  excessive precipitation  but  I  believe  we  all  agree  that  they  do  lessen  this  danger  and  prevent  the  washing  away  of  the valuable  top  soil which  is  so necessary  in keeping our State productive. Probably  two-thirds of  the  land area of Vermont  might  be  classed  as  forest  land,  and  if  this  vast  area  is  to  be  handed  down  to  future  generations  in  a productive manner we must now guard against unnecessary forest destruction. I  believe  the  State  should  continue  and  increase  as  fast  as  possible  its  forest  activities,  especially  along  the lines of forest fire prevention, state forest purchase, reforestation, and protection against forest tree diseases and insect attacks. The planting of seedlings in available tracts shows material increases and this activity promises much for the future development of our  timber  lands.  I  recommend  that  the  forestry department be given every support  in  its endeavor  to plant and propagate  seedlings, and be given encouragement  in  its worthy  efforts  to keep pace with the demand made upon it from all sections of the State for suitable seedlings for planting. During  the  past  year  the  State  has  received  through  the  generosity  of  Ex-Governor  Redfield  Proctor  a valuable gift of 900 acres of forest  land  in Granville Gulf. This  tract extending for a distance of six miles along the Granville Gulf  highways, will  protect  for  posterity  this  beautiful  region. With  the  increase  of  travel  on  our highways,  there  will  follow  many  creations  of  man  to  destroy  the  beauty  of  our  State  and,  therefore,  I recommend  that  the State  take every opportunity  to acquire additional  tracts, either through gift or by purchase, so that more of our scenic stretches may be permanently preserved. NATIONAL FOREST The  Legislature  of  1926  passed  an  enabling  act  permitting  the  Federal  government  to  establish  a  national forest  within  the  State  of  Vermont.  The  National  Forest  Reservation  Commission  has  recently  authorized  the acquisition  by  the  United  States  government  of  a  national  purchase  unit  in  southern  Vermont  comprising  one hundred thousand (100,000) acres, thus taking advantage of the legislation which the General Assembly of 1925 enacted with wisdom and foresight. A  national  forest  located  here  will  make  Vermont  a  part  of  a  countrywide  movement  to  preserve,  through scientific  forestry methods,  our magnificent  wooded  hills  and  will  guarantee  reforestry  of  the  lands  within  the unit in accordance with economic and advanced forestry practices. EDUCATION Notable  progress  has  been made  in  the  last  two  years  in  the matter  of modernizing  the  rural  schools  of  the State.  There  are  approximately  1050  one-room  school-buildings  in Vermont,  the  great majority  of which  have been  in  need  of  thorough  remodeling.  At  the  present  time  there  are  approximately  400  of  these  schools  which have  been  standardized  or  made  superior,  and  if  these  schools  which  have  now  been  completed  are  also included  it  is  safe  to  assert  that  the  entire  task of making  the  rural  schools of  the State modern  and  satisfactory in all essentials has been more than half completed.  The  importance  of  this work  can  hardly  be  overestimated  and  its  value  has  been  fully  demonstrated  by  the accomplishments  already  achieved. Every  reasonable  effort  should  be made  to  push  the work  to  completion  as rapidly as possible. Most of the towns in the State have been vitally interested and have contributed generously, both  from  public  funds  and  private  contributions  toward  the  promotion  of  this  work.  The  State  has  also  aided substantially  through  two  funds  the  so-called  Standardization  fund  from  which  aid  is  granted  on  a  one-third basis  up  to  a maximum  of  $300  for  a  single  school;  and  the  so-called Community  fund  from which  aid  is  paid on a  fifty-fifty basis up  to a maximum of $100. Both of  these  funds have proved so stimulating  in  this valuable work  that  they should be continued. The Community fund of $5,000 annually was voted by  the  last Legislature as an experiment and has been used  to match money privately  raised  for  the  improvement of  rural schools. The experiment has been distinctly  successful  and  the  call  for  aid  from  this  fund has  far  exceeded  the possibility of meeting  the  requests.  It  would  be  highly  desirable  to  continue  this  fund  for  the  next  biennium,  making  the annual appropriation $10,000 instead of $5,000. I  have  always  been  a  strong  advocate  of  adequate  rural  schools  and  I  believe  the  people  of  Vermont  are zealous  in  their desires  to provide for  the education of  their children. Let us foster  the development of our  local schools  to  the  end  that  the  children  in  the  rural  districts  may  be  given  similar  advantages  to  children  who  are privileged  to  attend  the  schools  in  the  larger  centers.  I  consider  this  of  the  utmost  importance  as  good  schools contribute materially to progress and contentment in our rural districts. The  program  of  training  teachers  for  elementary  and  rural  schools  has  been  developing most  satisfactorily. For several years the supply of trained teachers has been adequate, although this statement must be modified by recognizing that candidates who have completed but one year of normal training beyond high school have been, and still are, granted certificates to teach. Rapid progress has been made within the last biennial period toward a higher standard of training following high school graduation. The  unfavorable  conditions  existing  at  Castleton  after  the  fire  of  1924,  due  to  the  necessity  of  housing students  in  rented dwellings, has been  remedied by  the  completion of  the new dormitory  authorized by  the  last General  Assembly.  The  dormitory  was  put  in  use  at  the  beginning  of  the  current  school  year  and  is  proving exceedingly  satisfactory.  At  the  present  time  the  entire  student  body  is  accommodated  under  most  favorable conditions  which  will  doubtless  prove  more  economical  and  contribute  to  a  greater  degree  of  efficiency  in teacher training. I  deem  it  highly  important  to  pursue  the  present  efficient  program  and  to  improve  the  equipment  and facilities  for  the  training  of  teachers  to  the  end  that  we  may  always  have  available  adequately  prepared instructors for our rural and elementary schools. FISH AND GAME Vermont  resources  in  fish,  game  and  wild  life  represent  values  that  are  tremendous,  even  if  considered purely  from  an  economic  standpoint.  Our  annual  income,  based  on  actual  figures  is  now  more  than  $350,000 from  fur-bearing  animals  alone.  The  food  value  of  fish  and  game  taken  annually  is  priced  conservatively  at $250,000. Vermont  stands  without  a  rival  among  the  states  with  our  diversified  scenic  beauty  of  mountain,  field  and forest,  with  our  sparkling  lakes  and  clear-running  streams. Much  of  this  attractive  beauty  would  be  lost  if  the wild  life  of  field  and  forest  and  the  fish  in  our  lakes  and  streams  became  exterminated  or  seriously  depleted. With  our  improved  highways  and  modern  methods  of  transportation,  every  lake  and  straw,  and  every  area  of marsh and forest land providing game cover, is accessible to the 73,000 or more hunters and fishermen who are licensed annually, and to the thousands of farm owners, tenants and minor children who hunt and fish without a license.  To  preserve  this  great  heritage  for  ourselves  and  future  generations  is  a  sacred  duty  and  demands  the united efforts of all citizens. This department should be encouraged in its work and aid should be extended wherever possible as our fish and  game  resources  represent  one  of  our  most  important  as  well  as  unique  assets.  Constructive  conservation, and use without waste should be our policy.  STATE INSTITUTIONS Our  state  institutions  in  general  are very  satisfactory  at  the  present  time. The  physical  plants  especially,  by reason of  repairs and extensive  improvements at  the State Prison  in Windsor, and  the  rehabilitation work at  the State  Hospital  in  Waterbury,  necessitated  by  the  flood,  are  in  most  excellent  condition.  Both  the  School  for Feeble Minded at Brandon and  the Sanatorium  at Pittsford are badly congested. All  those who are a menace  to society  because  of mental  deficiencies  should  be  committed  to  the Feeble Minded School  and  persons  needing care and treatment, especially in incipient cases of tuberculosis, should receive our attention. The colony home  idea has proved  to be wise and effective. A  second colony home has been established  for boys  since  the  original  venture  for  girls  in  Rutland.  This  relieves  in  a  measure  congestion  at  the  School  for Feeble Minded  in  Brandon,  but  increased  facilities  are  needed,  nevertheless,  at  the  Brandon  institution  as well as the Pittsford Sanatorium, and I would recommend for your consideration the advisability of meeting the most vital  needs  of  the  School  at  Brandon  and  the  Sanatorium  at  Pittsford  so  that  this  valuable  work  among  the unfortunates of our State may go forward without the handicap of inadequate facilities. AVIATION The  rapid  progress  recently  made  throughout  the  world  in  aviation  would  appear  to  require  that  suitable legislation be  adopted  for  the  control and operation of  air  craft. What  aviation meant  to Vermont at  the  time of the flood is so well known to you all that I not need to comment upon it here. I  recommend  that  this Legislature pass suitable  laws defining air craft,  fixing suitable  rules,  regulations and requirements  for  the  licensing of operators, and making proper provision  for  the  acquiring of  airports by  cities, villages,  towns  or  counties  within  our  State,  either  through  purchase  or  by  exercise  of  the  power  of  eminent domain. This  subject  was  given  thoughtful  and  careful  study  by  the  Aviation  Committee  of  the  Vermont  State Chamber  of  Commerce  and  the  recommendations  of  this  committee  are  set  forth  in  their  report  rendered  at  a meeting  held  in  Rutland  on  October  16,  last.  I  commend  this  report  to  your  favorable  consideration  and recommend legislation along the lines embodied in said report. PUBLICITY Fruitful returns have resulted from the efforts of the State Publicity Bureau to give increased publicity to the marked and superior advantages of Vermont as a vacation state and a pleasure land. The growing importance of the  tourist business and  the  increasing activity of other New England States  in  this direction make  it  imperative that  Vermont  take  every  advantage  of  her  splendid  opportunities  for  development.  I  believe  that  an  increased appropriation for publicity will be an investment that will yield commensurate and gratifying returns. FLOOD CONTROL In an effort  to  see  if  it  is not possible  to prevent a  recurrence of  such disasters as  resulted  from  the  flood of 1927, as well as those from which the State has suffered in earlier years, there was appointed late last winter an advisory  committee  of  engineers  on  flood  control,  under  the  direction  of  the  Public  Service Commission.  This committee was  requested  to  investigate  the  possibility  of  such  regulation  or  control  of  the  flow  of water  in  the streams  as  might  be  necessary  to  prevent  damage  by  floods.  The  investigation  also  included  a  study  of  the possibilities  of  power  development  in  connection  with  the  flood  control  and  the  regulation  of  the  streams.  On this account certain power companies in the State agreed to pay one-half of the expense of the investigation, the balance being paid from the emergency flood fund. The  findings  of  the  committee,  together with  their  recommendations,  are  set  forth  in  a  report which  is  now before  the  Legislature,  which  I  trust  will  be  given  careful  study  and  consideration  by  the  Assembly.  The program  proposed  is  a  complete  plan  for  the  future  control  of  the  streams  of  the  State  and  the  development  of the entire water power resources in Vermont. It is a long-time program to be gradually undertaken as conditions in  the  future  will  justify.  If  this  plan  can  be  put  into  operation,  we  may  expect  to  see  our  flood  work  greatly lessened and the power available in the State materially increased. Five  important  rivers,  in  whose  valleys  the  greatest  devastation  occurred,  have  been  investigated.  It  seems advisable  to  cover  the  remaining  rivers  of  the State  in  the  same way  during  the  coming  year  to  the  end  that  all rivers  of  importance  in  Vermont  would  be  comprehensively  investigated.  I  would,  therefore,  suggest  a  further state appropriation of $5,000  to complete  the preliminary  investigation provided a  like amount will be  supplied by the public utility companies.  HIGHWAYS No one can doubt the necessity for a comprehensive system of adequate highways in any plan looking to the development  of Vermont. Good  roads  help  trade  and  commerce. They help  the  farmer  and  the pleasure  seeker. They promote and stimulate business. Every  citizen  of Vermont  today  recognizes  that  there  is  a  very  evident  obligation  resting  upon  the  State  to continue her program of hard surface roads construction as represented by some definite policy, such as the plan adopted at the last session of the Legislature. Gratifying results have been obtained during the past two years while operating under the present pay as you go  plan.  In  1927,  47.8  miles  of  hard  surface  roads  were  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  most  modern  and approved methods. During 1928, 57.45 miles of such roads have been built. It is a matter of great satisfaction to the  people  of  Vermont  that  the  program  adopted  at  the  last  legislative  session  has  been  exceeded,  in  so  far  as anticipated mileage is concerned. Even the flood did not force any curtailment of the program of construction as originally scheduled. Pleased  over  the  splendid  results  already  obtained  the  people  of  our State  apparently  desire  to  step  forward in the march of progress and there is an unmistakable sentiment for a progressive continuance of the hard roads program.  I  share  that  sentiment,  and  I  firmly  believe  that  the  interests  of  all Vermonters  can  best  be  served  by pushing  hard  roads  development  to  completion  as  is  consistent  with  sound  business  economics.  Our  public policy  should  be  to  speed  up  the  program  for  the  construction  of  hard  roads  in  accordance  with  the  federal traffic survey, which was unanimously approved by the State Highway Board as a ten- year program. It  will  be  remembered  that  I  offered  a  definite  policy  for  hard  road  construction  in my message  to  the  last Legislature.  The  plan  involved  certain  features  of  finance  and  method  which  were,  so  far  as  essentials  go, approved  by  the Legislature.  I  considered  the  plan  feasible,  adequate  and  progressive.  I  still  consider  it  so. My own  conviction,  in  considering  this  paramount  question  of  road  development,  is  to  continue  the  plan  that  has proved itself so beneficial and productive of gratifying results, and to increase the mileage under that plan as far as our resources and abilities will permit. Therefore,  adhering  to  the  principle of  the method  and  plan  I  first  adopted,  I  suggest  as  a  possible  solution of our road problem an expansion of the present plan which, to my mind, will meet the needs of the State for the next two years without resorting to bond issues or drastic and complicated schemes of finance. It  is  not my  purpose  to  submit  any  hard  and  fast  proposition  from which  there  could  be  no  deviation,  or  to offer  calculations which  are  so precise  and  inflexible  as  to  allow but one  irrefutable  answer  so  far  as  aggregate mileage  is  concerned. My  aim,  rather,  is  to  suggest  the  possibilities  which  may  lie  behind  an  extension  of  the present  program  through  utilization  of  the  revenues  already  available  to  the  road  fund,  together  with  the additional revenue accruing from a one cent increase in gas tax. An  examination  of  revenues,  actual  and  estimated,  which  will  be  available  for  our  highways  from  the various  sources,  such  as  gas  tax  and  automobile  registration  fees,  together  with  estimated  returns  from  a  one cent  increase  in  gas  tax,  and  a  conservative  estimate  of  the  normal  increase  in  gas  sales  and  registrations indicate  that  there would be an  income sufficient  to construct at  least 100 miles of hard surface  road during  the next biennium. This also provides for payment of interest and principal on the flood bonds and does not disturb the appropriations for maintenance and state aid for unselected highways. If,  however,  the  Legislature  will  make  provision  for  meeting  the  flood  bond  obligation  for  the  next  two years, by  securing  revenues  from other  sources, we will be able  to  increase  the hard  surface mileage  to  at  least 125 miles for the two-year period. I am convinced that the mileage suggested would be the minimum which may reasonably be expected under conditions which will in all likelihood prevail through the next two years. It represents, to my mind, satisfactory progress  in  our  hard  surface  roads  development.  It  will  be  noted  that  a  one  cent  increase  in  gas  tax  is contemplated  but  no  direct  tax  is  required  and  the  present  appropriations  for  maintenance  of  our  entire  road systems  in  and  improvement  of  our  secondary  roads  are  not  disturbed.  In  any  plan  for  hard  surface  road development we must  also  recognize  the  imperative  need of  improving  our  town  roads,  so  vital  to  an  adequate highway system in Vermont. I am not unmindful of an  indisputable demand on  the part of many of our people  for a more ambitious plan of  hard  roads development, which has  for  its  aim  a  completion  of  our  trunk  line  system with more  pronounced vigor and greater  rapidity.  If  the Legislature  feels  that  this demand  for a program of more  rapid progress  is one that should be heeded with wisdom, then there are ways for obtaining the desired results. Several  plans  which  contemplate  bond  issues  as  methods  of  financing  our  hard  roads  program  for  the purposes to early completion of the trunk  line system have been placed before  the people and frankly discussed by  the  press  and  the  public.  Let  me  say  that,  while  I  hold  to  the  belief  that  the  present  plan  for  hard  roads construction  contains  features  which  are  more  desirable  from  the  standpoint  of  safe  financing  and  economic soundness.  I  am,  first of  all, most deeply  concerned over  the welfare  and  the best  interests of Vermont  and her people. If,  therefore,  the  Legislature  deems  it  advisable  to  adopt  a  change  of  policy  in  regard  to  hard  roads development,  by  favoring  some  plan  other  than  the  method  which  I  have  advocated,  I  will  give  it  my  whole-hearted  support,  providing  the  plan  contains  provisions  consistent  with  sound  business  principles,  sane judgment and wise economy. I will not oppose any plan which commends  itself for adoption for reasons which are for  the best  interest of all the people of Vermont. I  am  convinced  that Vermont must  face  the  highway  problem  just  as  the  State  has  faced  other  problems  of great  magnitude  requiring  large  amounts  of  money.  Vermont  must  face  the  highway  problem  with  courage, determination and in the spirit of true progress. FLOOD BONDS The  flood  of  1927  made  it  necessary  for  Vermont  to  depart  from  a  traditional  public  policy  in  regard  to bonding  the  State,  and  the  Legislature,  in  special  session,  authorized  a  bond  issue  of  $8,500,000  to  meet  the emergency. It was hoped in the first instance that it would not be necessary to utilize the full amount of the issue under  the  authorization but  the damage  to  our  highways  and  bridges  has  been  found  to be  so  extensive  and  the problems of reconstruction so manifold and ramified, that the use of the entire issue will be required in addition to the appropriation of $2,654,000 made by the National government. It is incumbent upon the Legislature to provide means for the next two years for meeting the obligation thus imposed  upon  the  State,  and  to  enact measures  looking  to  the  retirement  of  our  bonded  indebtedness.  It  is my belief that an emergency obligation, such as the recent bond issue, should be met by emergency provisions, and the  retirement  achieved  by  special  revenues  obtained  for  that  specific  purpose, without  encroachment  upon  the established revenues of the State. Upon  this  theory  of  public  policy  I  would  suggest  as  possible  methods  of  meeting  this  emergency  the enactment  of  such  special measures  as  a  small  direct  state  tax,  an  amusement  tax  and  readjustment  of  the  fees for  registration of motor vehicles. In considering  the possibility of a direct  tax  for  this purpose  it must be borne in mind that it is not in excess of the state tax of 1927, as that tax was authorized for two years only. I  offer  this  suggestion  for  flood  bond  retirement  for  the  next  biennium with  the  full  understanding  that  it  is only  one  of many  possible methods  of  handling  this  problem.  It  seems  to me  to  possess  the merit  of  being  an emergency tax proposition created to provide for emergency expenditures. I believe such a solution is safe from the  standpoint  of  broad  public  policy.  However,  in  your  deliberations  you  may  be  able  to  discover  a  more feasible plan. If so, it will have my endorsement. TAXATION Taxation has always been a troublesome and highly debatable subject. It is a proposition of such tremendous magnitude that it is a physical impossibility to effect a satisfactory solution in one legislative session, unless the results  of  a  thorough  and  intelligent,  study  is  available  as  a  basis  of  procedure.  I would,  therefore,  ask  that  the present  Legislature  consider  this,  matter  and  authorize  a  commission  of  at  least  five  persons  to  study  the question’ of taxation from all angles and to report their findings to the General Assembly of 1931. I recommend a reasonable appropriation for that, purpose.  In this connection I would say that in June, 1928, the Vermont branch of the New England Council passed a resolution  with  the  recommendation  that  the  Governor  appoint  a  committee  to  consider  and  study  the  whole question  of  taxation  because  of  the  fact  that  the  flood  had  materially  increased  Vermont’s  problem  of  raising revenues. It was further suggested that the committee make a report to the Legislature in order that the members might be properly advised, before new legislation was passed. Acting  upon  this  resolution,  I  asked  the  New  England  Council  to  appoint  a  committee  from  its  own membership  to  conduct  this  study,  and  they  have  made  certain  observations  and  recommendations  that  are embodied in a report which will be placed before you for consideration. CONCLUSION You now enter upon your duties as representatives of  the  freeman vote of Vermont. May your  record prove as  worthy  and  fruitful  as  the  records  of  those  who  have  preceded  you  in  the  historic  Assembly. May  you  also legislate  that  Vermont  will  continue  rightfully  in  that  position  which  means  progress  and  prosperity,  not  only for  ourselves  alone,  but  also  as  contributors  to  the  progress  and  prosperity  of  the  country  of  which  we  form  a part. Vermont is endowed with resources which can contribute to an enlargement of her material, intellectual and spiritual life. Success in no small degree is dependent upon the service rendered by the legislative Assemblies. I ask that you take up your tasks with faith in your fellowmen, faith in your State, and faith in God. JOHN E. WEEKS.”