Inaugural address  of  John S. Robinson  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  Senate  October Session  1853  Wednesday, November 2, 1853 Inaugural Address  Fellow Citizens of the Senate    and House of Representatives: At  the close of another and  the commencement of a new political year,  the General Assembly are convened to  discharge  the  duties  devolved  upon  them  under  the  Constitution  and  Laws.    The  Representatives  of  the people accustomed  to  the duties of  legislation,  familiar with  the political  rights secured by  the constitution, and acquainted with  the  laws  enacted  to preserve  and maintain  them,  can be desirous only  to devise  such measures as,  in  their  opinion,  will  best  promote  the  general  welfare.    Whatever  may  be  our  party  preferences,  and however  strongly  we  may  adhere  to  the  principles  we  profess,  the  legislation  required  for  the  domestic government  of  the  State,  does  not  ordinarily  involve  our  political  opinions,  or  excite  the  asperity  of  party controversy.    It  is  fortunate,  indeed,  for  the perpetuity of our  republican  form of government,  that parties exist; and  the  instability of all political power and party ascendancy,  it  is not unreasonable  to suppose, affords one of the  best  guaranties  for  our  liberties  and  one  of  the  strongest  incentives  to  a  faithful  and  honest  performance  of the duties confided to the public servants of the State.  The long retention of power by either political party, may undermine its virtue, relax its vigor, and dispel the fear of rigid accountability. For myself, I undertake with diffidence the duties of the executive office, and distrust my own experience to acceptably  discharge  them.    Succeeding  to  the  office  which  has  been  filled  with  so  much  ability  by  my predecessors, I am apprehensive that in the performance of its various duties, I may not justify your partiality in electing me. A plentiful harvest – an exemption from those terrible epidemics which afflict and almost depopulate towns and  cities  –  the  general  good  health  of  the  citizens  of  the  State,  and  the  success  and  prosperity  of  all  their industrial  pursuits,  afford  us  proper  subjects  for  congratulation,  and  a  just  sense  of  gratitude  should  inspire  us with hope for a continuance of the blessings which flow from the goodness and mercy of our Heavenly Father. The  repeated  revision  of  our  laws  by  competent  and  learned  men,  would  induce  the  expectation  that  the session of the Legislature not unfrequently short, may still be abridged without detriment to the public interests.  The practice  frequently adopted of  referring  subjects of  special  interest and  importance  to a  single or a number of eminent jurists for revision and amendment is highly to be commended; this plan ensures greater accuracy in the  language  and  precision  in  the  details  of  the  laws,  and  more  certainty  in  the  language  and  precision  in  the details  of  the  laws,  and  more  certainty  in  their  administration.    But  notwithstanding  these  revisions, imperfections exist, and omissions have unavoidably occurred.  It will be your duty to supply any omission and correct  such  imperfections  as  your  own  acquaintance  with  the  laws  and  the  experience  of  others may  suggest.  And  it  is  with  no  ordinary  pleasure  that  I  express  the  belief  that  the  system  of  laws  under  which  we  live  is wisely  adapted  to  the wants  and  necessities  of  the  people.   They  exhibit  the  result  of  the  practical wisdom  and mature  experience of  the generations who have preceded us; with  rare exceptions  they may be characterized as eminently  just,  humane  and  liberal:    under  them  we  have  attained  our  past  and  present  prosperity,  and  our institutions,  whether  literary,  religious  or  charitable,  have  been  reared  upon  the  solid  foundation  laid  down  by our ancestors in the constitution and laws. The early  settlers of  the State,  to escape  the persecution and  intolerance of what was  formerly denominated “THE  STANDING  ORDER,”  and  to  avoid  the  payment  of  an  odious  and  unjust  tax  for  the  support  of  a  faith irreconcilable  with  their  own,  were  compelled  to  emigrate  to  the  then  uninhabited  New  Hampshire  Grants, where  they  could  enjoy  unmolested,  their  religion,  practice  its  rites,  and  propagate  its  faith.    Accustomed  to persecutions  in  the  place  of  their  nativity,  they  illustrated  by  their  practice  and  example,  the  advantages  of unrestrained  liberty  of  conscience,  and  transferred  into  our  constitution  and  laws  a  liberal  spirit  and  a  noble  an ingenious  philanthropy.    Succeeding  to  an  inheritance,  of  such  inestimable  value,  it  may  not  be  improper  to inquire whether all our legislation has been conceived in the like spirit and characterized by the same liberality.  One  of  the  duties  required  by  the  constitution,  of  the  Executive,  “is  to  prepare  such  business  as may  appear  to them  necessary  to  lay  before  the General Assembly;”  and  it  seems  to  be  implied  that  the  reasons  and motives, also, for such recommendations should be submitted. “An Act to prevent traffic in intoxicating liquors for the purpose of drinking,” has engaged the attention and excited  the  feelings  of  the  community,  perhaps  more  than  any  other  legislation  since  the  organization  of  the Government.   As  the end proposed by  the  law  is both moral and desirable,  those who doubt  the propriety of all its provisions, may  at  least be  subject  to  the  imputation of  indifference, or being  the  advocates or  apologists of intemperance.    Discarding,  however,  any  fear  of  the  consequences  which  may  attach  to  the  expression  of  an opinion  honestly  entertained,  I  propose,  respectfully,  to  suggest,  rather  than  prove  by  argument,  that  several provisions  of  the  law  are  of  doubtful  constitutionality,  and  expediency.    The  duties  which  are  enjoined  on  the Council  of  Censors,  imply  an  apprehension  of  the  part  of  the  framers  of  the  Constitution,  that  the  powers delegated to the legislative and executive branches of Government, may be unintentionally exceeded, or through inadvertence,  disregarded.    And  experience  proves,  that  the  public  servants  of  the  State,  when  an  apparent necessity  intervenes  for  its  justification,  are  oftentimes  more  ready  to  enlarge  than  restrict  their  power.    An eminent  writer,  on  the  principles  of  our  government  has  observed  that  “our  legislators  are  not  apprised  of  the rightful limits of their power; and their true office is to declare and enforce only our natural rights and duties, to take none of them from us.” To  say  nothing  of  our  natural  rights  other  than  those  enumerated  in  the  constitution,  it  will  not,  I  trust,  be deemed unsuitable to enquire why it was necessary to subject the gift or sale of what has heretofore been known as  property,  which  always  has  been,  and  now  is,  an  article  of  commerce  in  every  civilized  country,  to  highly penal  enactments,  unless  to  infringe  the  immunity  which  the  constitution  extends  over  the  “persons,  houses, papers, possessions, and property” of every citizen, by transforming an innocent if not an indifferent act into an offence on which  to  institute  the  right of search?   Such legislation certainly evinces a disposition  to convert  the right  of  “acquiring,  possessing  and  protection  property” which  the  constitution  in  the  first  article  of  our Bill  of Rights,  recognizes  as  one  of  the  “natural  inherent  and  inalienable  rights  of  every  citizen,”  into  an  odious  and disreputable  crime.    The  authority  to  pass  this  law  is  undoubtedly  claimed  under  the  grant  of  power  over  the internal  police  of  the  State.    How  far  this  grant  is  retrained  by  other  provisions  in  the  constitution  and  what limitations  are  to  be  put  upon  the works  “governing  and  regulating”  it  is  unnecessary  to  inquire;  for,  if  it were conceded  that  the  fifth article  in  the Bill of Rights confers  the authority  to prohibit, so  likewise  it give  the  right to  regulate  the  sale  and  restrain  the  abuse  of  any  article  of  property,  and  the  question  then  becomes  one  of expediency.    An  opinion  prevails  in  the  community,  that  the  habits  and  tastes  of  a  people  may  be  materially changed  by  legislative  enactments;  this,  I  apprehend,  it  at  variance with  the  past  history  and  experience  of  the world; such laws do not command the respect or obedience of those intended to be coerced, and it is a matter of notoriety  that  they  are  daily  violated with  impunity.    The  difficulty  of  enforcing,  and  the  impolicy  of  enacting laws  of  this  character,  would  be  more  apparent  if  it  were  within  the  constitutional  power  of  the  legislature  to establish  a  common  faith  and  mode  of  worship  in  religion.    This  subject  anciently  engaged  the  attention  of deliberative  assemblies,  and  if we were  to  enact  similar  laws, we  should  undoubtedly  attain  a  like  result.    The truth,  however,  cannot  be  dissembled  that  the  present  law  has  proved  ineffectual  and  inadequate  to  restrain  the use  of  and  traffic  in  intoxicating  liquors;  and  the  fact  that  the  legislature  in  one  part  of  the  aw  divest  it  of  the character  of  property,  and,  in  another,  recognize  it  as  such,  and  tolerate  its  sale  in  one  place  in  each  town  for medicinal and mechanical purposes,  should  inspire us with distrust of any enduring  reformation  founded  solely upon municipal law.  If, however, such laws should eventually accomplish the objects expected form them, they will  afford  a most  ready way  to  expiate  the  evils which  afflict  the  community;  but  religion  has  been  generally understood  to  inculcate a different  theory for  the reformation of  the race, and  intemperance and other  like vices have been denounced by a higher and more omnipotent tribunal than that of any State Legislature Whatever may  be  the  opinion  of  the  Supreme  Court  upon  the  constitutionality  of  the  several  provisions  of the law, whether favorable or otherwise, still the law is subject to be modified, repealed or made more stringent, according  to  the  varying  opinions  of  succeeding Legislatures;  and  the  question  of  temperance  ceases  to  be  one of moral reform and becomes merged in the party and political conflicts of the day.  A very respectable portion, perhaps a majority of the citizens of the State, regard the existing law as intolerant in principle, oppressive in its enactments,  if  not  objectionable  in  the  manner  of  its  execution.    I,  therefore,  respectfully  recommend  such  a modification  the  law which, while  it  shall  preserve  the  State  from  the  vice  of  intemperance, will  also maintain the rights of our citizens against infringement and their dwellings from wanton and malicious intrusion. I  have  thus  frankly  communicated  my  own  opinion  of  the  policy  and  expediency  of  such  stringent legislation;  at  the  same  time  I  am  aware  it  does  not  accord  with  the  sentiments  or  feelings  of  a  numerous  and highly intelligent portion of our citizens. Our  laws  wisely  secure  to  a  married  woman,  in  her  own  right,  the  ownership  of  both  real  and  personal property:    in  case  she  dies  intestate,  her  husband  surviving,  it  is  not  free  from  doubt,  who  is  entitled  to administer  upon  her  estate,  or  by  what  rule  the  Probate  Court  are  to  governed  in  the  distribution.    It  is  to  be presumed, however, that he questions arising between the husband and the next of kin, in respect to her chattels real,  and  choses  in  action, were  designedly  left,  to  be  settled  by  the  principles  of  the  common  law.    I  therefore submit whether it would not be more in harmony with our system of laws relating to the settlement of estates, to  make  some  specific  provisions  on  the  subject,  and  there  buy  expedite  their  settlement  and  prevent  needless legislation.  Common  Schools  have  been  the  subject  of  commendation  in  every  Executive  message,  and  in  their necessity  and  importance,  I  most  cheerfully  concur.    Education  is  an  object  of  deep  solicitude  to  parents,  and intense  interest  to  the  State.    On  the  moral  and  intellectual  education  of  youth,  depends  their  success  and happiness  in  life  and  their  characters  as  citizens.    The  State  have  never  been  inattentive  to  the  wants  of  her children,  but with  a wise  liberality  has  supplied  the means  to  furnish  all with  the  benefit  of  a Common  School education.    Attempts  have  been  made  by  the  establishment  of    Teachers’  Institutes,  to  raise  the  grade  of scholarship  in  teachers,  and  impart more  aptness  to  instruct;  but with what  success  I  am  unable  to  say.    It may be  doubted,  notwithstanding  the  improvements  in  the  character  of  books,  and  the  superior  qualifications  of teachers,  whether  in  a  majority  of  he  district  schools,  any  more  or  better  education  is  now  acquired  than formerly.  Why it is so, I am unable to explain, unless caused by the indifference of parents and the inefficiency of  the  laws  relating  to  the  subject.    I  submit whether  these  laws do not need  revision,  so  that, as  far as depends upon them, the character of this indispensable class of schools may be raised. Our  Colleges  and  Academies  afford  the  necessary  facilities  for  acquiring  a  higher  and  more  finished education, and were  they more adequately endowed,  their means of  instruction and usefulness would be greatly increased;  but  the  liberality  of  individuals  has,  in  some  measure,  supplied  the  means  which  the  State  has hitherto been unable  to  appropriate,  and  these  institutions may  justly  appeal  to  the munificence of  the State  for aid  and  encouragement;  and  a  retrenchment  in  the  expenses  of  the  government  will  enable  the  legislature  to make annual appropriations to these deservedly meritorious institutions. Upon  the  occasion  of  a  change  in  the  political  power,  justice  demands  the  acknowledgement  that  the  party which  has  so  long  enjoyed  the  patronage  and  maintained  the  ascendancy  in  the  State,  have  exhibited  a commendable  liberality  in  the  distribution  of  the  judicial  offices;  and  more  recently  in  the  appointment  of  an eminent  jurist  to  the  office  of  chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court.    The  judicial,  like  other  public  servants,  are subject  to  the  ordeal  of  an  annual  election;  yet  the  changes  which  occur  from  time  to  time,  have  been  for  the most part voluntary, or occasioned by the transfer of some individual member of the Court to other equally high and  responsible  stations.    At  different  times,  individuals  as  well  as  several  councils  of  censors,  have recommended that greater permanence should be give to the judicial tenure, from the supposed effect which the annual elections would have in detracting from the character of the Court, and an apprehension that in questions of  a  public  an  political  character,  the  bias  insensibly  contracted  from  party  connections might,  to  some  extent, influence  their  decisions.    But  happily  for  the  character  of  the  State,  the  practice  of  annual  elections,  adopted coeval  with  the  establishment  of  our  independence,  has  demonstrated  the  fallacy  of  such  objections,  and  the purity and incorruptible integrity of our judicial tribunals. Our  inland  situation  has  deprived  us  of  the  advantages  and  wealth  which  accrue  from  commerce,  and  the want of canals and navigable rivers for the conveyance to market of the productions of the State has retarded the settlement  and  improvement  of  our  uncultivated  lands;  but  the  construction  of  almost  five  hundred  miles  of Railroad,  has  provided  a  valuable  substitute  for  these  deficiencies,  and  we  may  hereafter  expect  a  more  rapid increase  in  wealth  and  population.    Vermont  included  within  her  limits  more  than  ten  thousand  square  miles, and is capable of sustaining triple the number of her present population by introducing a greater diversity in the business  pursuits  of  her  people.   One  of  the means  best  calculated  to  produce  so  desirable  a  result would  be  to resume  the  Geological  Survey  formerly  commenced,  and  partly  completed.    It  is  to  be  regretted,  that  the condition  of  the  treasury  compelled  the  legislature  to  withhold  an  appropriation  necessary  for  its  completion.  Yet  the  expenses  incurred  and  the  labor  expended  may  be  made  available,  should  the  legislature  deem  it expedient  to  finish  the  survey.    Other  States  have  appreciated  the  advantages  and  derived  the  benefits  of  such surveys by completing and publishing the reports for the benefits of such surveys by completing and publishing the  reports  for  the  benefit  of  science  and  the world.   No  doubt  can  be  entertained  that  the mineral  resources  of the State lie, in part, undeveloped, and that the minerals usually found associated with the geological formations similar  to  those  in our own State, will be discovered by  an  intelligent  and  scientific geologist.   Already  several valuable  minerals  are  successfully  mined  and  used  in  the  arts  and  manufactures  of  the  country;  and  the discovery  of  other  materials  for  manufacture  would  introduce  them,  and  add  to  the  wealth  and  prosperity  of individuals and the State. Since  taxes  are  levied  upon  persons,  property  and  business,  every  increase  in  either  affords  an  additional source,  from  which  to  collect  revenue  for  the  support  of  the  Government.    The  success  of  our  Railroads  are intimately  connected with  the  development  of  our  resources  and  dependent  to  a  large  extent  upon  the  products of  mining,  manufactures  and  agriculture  for  business  and  profit.    Nor  are  the  benefits  which  are  to  accrue  to agriculture  to  be  disregarded  in  connection with  a Geological  Survey; within  twenty-five  years  great  advances have been made  in  a better  and more  scientific knowledge of    the  true principles on which  agriculture depends for  success  and  profit.    Chemistry,  by  an  analysis  of  soils  and  their  crops,  unlocks  the  secret  of  fertility  and barrenness,  supplies  the  requisite knowledge  to  increase  the one  and  restore  the other, explains  the  constituents of  which  mineral  and  vegetable  substances  are  composed,  and  enables  the  practical  man  to  skillfully  prepare and  apply  them  to  the  enriching his  field.   The  earth  is  truly  the mother of  the  race,  -  she  fields  and  clothes us, supplies  the materials  for  commerce,  is  the  source of our wealth,  and of  the  comforts  and  conveniences of  life; and the better she is understood, the more liberally she dispenses these gifts. Exempt  from  the  embarrassment  of  a  public  debt,  and  with  a  firm  determination  so  to  remain,  it  is  not without hesitation I have invited your attention to this subject; but satisfied however, of it importance as well as being due  to  the  character of  the State,  and  the  interests of her  citizens,  I  entertain  the  conviction,  that upon  an examination  into  the  appropriations  made  to  various  objects,  some  one  will  be  found,  which  may  without injustice be withheld and applied to completing the Geological Survey. During  the  past  year  another  Presidential  election  has  been  held,  and  the  choice  of  the  electors  has  fallen upon one of the distinguished citizens of New England, whose administration, from the policy announced in his inaugural,  we  may  justly  anticipate,  will  redound  to  the  honor,  strengthen  the  bonds,  if  not  enlarge  the boundaries of the Union. We  cannot  be  indifferent  to  the  Foreign  and  domestic  policy  of  the  general  government,  and  it  is  to  be regarded  as  a  favorable  circumstance  in  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  the  world,  that  the  administration truly  reflects  the  sentiments  and opinions of  the people.    In  the questions which  formerly  threatened  to  involve us  in hostilities with other nations,  the patriotism of  the people was  in advance of  that of  the public authorities.  Being  the  only  republic where  almost  unlimited  freedom  of  speech  and  action  has  not  proved  to  be  subversive of  the  constitution  and  laws  –  it  is  not  more  our  interest  than  duty  to  afford  ample  protection  to  our  citizens whether native or naturalized.  In a recent case, the prompt and resolute interference in behalf of one unlawfully abducted  from  neutral  territory,  but  claiming  the  protection  of  our  flag,  commands  as  it  deserved,  the unqualified approbation of the government and people. A  vacancy  occurring  by  the  death  of  one  of  our  Senators  in  Congress,  was  filled  during  the  recess  of  the Legislature  by  my  predecessor:    the  duty  of  electing  a  Senator  to  represent  the  State,  for  the  remainder  of  the term, will devolve upon you at the present session. It will  be  a  pleasure  as well  as my  duty  to  concur with  you  in  every measure  of  legislation which  you may devise  for  the  protection  and  happiness  of  our  common  constituents,  and  in  all  our  public  acts,  we  should  be guided by the spirit of that religion which instructs us in our duty to man and our Maker.  }     EXECUTIVE CHAMBER,      Montpelier November 2, 1853.  JOHN S. ROBINSON