Inaugural address of  Lee E. Emerson  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1951    Thursday, January 4, 1951 Inaugural Address  TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND PEOPLE OF VERMONT: As we enter upon  the deliberations of  this Legislature,  it  is well  to pause and  take brief  account of  stock  so that we may know and appreciate the job which lies ahead of us.  The little segment of time with which we deal will be an important link in the chain of history of our nation and our state. The  times  are  ominous  and  uncertain.    The world  is  in  turmoil.    It  is  peopled  by  a  vast majority who  have been  taught  not  to  like  us  and who  are  jealous  of  our  democracy  and what  it  has  been  able  to  accomplish.   To many  of  these  people,  a  crust  of  bread  or  a  bowl  of  rice  is  a  prize  to  be  coveted.    To  many  of  these  people, Communism is attractive because they have been falsely persuaded it offers a better way of life than the misery and  degradation  they  have  heretofore  lived  under.    Communistic  leadership  is  utterly  ruthless.    It  seeks  to destroy democracy as a way of life just the same as the Huns and Vandals of an earlier day sought to destroy the superior  civilization  created  by  the  Roman  Empire.    The  fate  of  the  Roman  Empire,  gone  soft,  is  one  of  the milestones of history known  to us all.   Let  it be said of us we are determined  that history shall not  repeat  itself.  Those who do not know and take heed of history suffer by repeating its mistakes. But  the  task which  lies  ahead  is great.   We have  committed ourselves wholeheartedly  to  the  cause of peace through the medium of the United Nations.  In a world today that knows only force, we are the only nation with sufficient potentiality  to oppose  force with  force.    In Korea our  force has not been sufficient  to put  into effect a United  Nations  edict.    It  must  be  made  sufficient.    In  a  world  grown  small  because  of  the  airplane  and  the atomic  bomb,  to  think  that  we  can  carry  on  continually  seeking  the  good  things  of  life  first  and  military  and home front preparedness second is to court disaster. Neither do we know  the  course of  attack which  an  aggressor may pursue  against us.   Victory  always whets the  appetite  of  the  victor  for more  victories.    Our  reverses  in  Korea may  build  up  the  confidence  of  aggressor nations  to  the  point  where  they  will  believe  that  because  the  United  States  is  not  ready  for  all  out  war  and because  there  is  no  present  adequate  military  set-up  in  Europe,  now  is  the  opportune  time  to  finish  off  the democracies.  On the other hand, due primarily to the fear of the atomic bomb, the aggressor may decide to play a long waiting game by letting us build up without attack a great military machine at vast expense over a period of  years  in  the  hopes  that  its  cost  will  wreck  the  free  enterprise  system  of  government  and  that  the  American taxpayer experiencing no actual war, will cry out  for  relief and seek  to do away with military preparedness and the  garrison  state.    Such  a  policy  the  aggressor  likewise  will  reason  will  wear  down  the  zeal  of  the  citizen  for adequate civilian defense preparations and cause him to become indifferent to the perils he might be up against.  The history of our country has shown we have been impatient that wars be quickly fought and over with so that we  could  forget  them  and  return  to  the  pursuits  of  peace  as  rapidly  as  possible.    We  do  not  like  crisis  or emergency  to  linger.    Today,  in  view  of  our  commanding world  position  as  the  leader  of  the  democracies  and the  chief  supporter  of  the  United  Nations,  we  must  remain  strong  and  alert.    As  long  as  potential  aggression exists which might  destroy  us, we must  remain  fully  armed,  and  the  temper  of  the  people  on  the  civilian  front must  be  one  of  continuous  willingness  to  plan  for  our  protection  and  be  willing  to  implement  those  plans whenever necessary. I turn, therefore, to the consideration of some of the abnormal problems the times confront us with. EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES Communism:    We  here  in  Vermont,  believe  in  democracy,  and  its  most  important  attributes  such  as  the right to free speech, freedom of religious worship, freedom of assemblage and a free press.  However, we do not want  to  see  this  democracy  imperiled  by  the  advocacy,  through  the  medium  of  any  political  party,  of  the overthrow  of  our  government  by  force.    Any  party  having  such  a  principle  as  a  part  of  its  platform  should  be outlawed in Vermont.  Furthermore, I call your attention to the fact that the United States is not technically in a state  of  war  at  the  present  time.    Chapter  306  of  the  Vermont  Statutes  known  as  the  Sabotage  Prevention  Act comes  into  force and effect only when  the United States  is  so engaged.    I believe  this chapter dealing with acts of sabotage in time of war should be so amended as to make it applicable under present day conditions. Civil Defense.   No. 251 of  the Acts of 1949 sets up a civil defense agency within  the Department of Public Safety.    This  Act  provides  for  a  council  which  is  charged  with  the  duty  of  adopting  a  plan  contemplating  the coordination  to  the maximum extent of all civil defense  functions of  the  state with  the comparable  functions of the Federal government.  The Council should be made answerable to the Governor.  The Act should be clarified and enlarged to fully meet the conditions we are faced with.  Plans for all kinds of disaster relief which may not have  been  contemplated  at  the  time  the  Act  was  drawn,  including  the  care  of  refugees  who  may  come  to  our State  from  bombed  metropolitan  areas  should  be  detailed  therein.    As  a  matter  of  patriotism  it  behooves  the citizen  for  his  own  self-protection  to  give  freely  of  his  time  and  effort  so  that  an  adequate  civil  defense  set  up may  cover  the  state.    The  work  should  be  kept  upon  a  volunteer  rather  than  a  paid  basis  as  much  as  possible.  We must all volunteer willingly for this work and be willing to do or perform whatever tasks may be assigned to us  to  accomplish.   Many  local  civil  defense  set-ups  are  rapidly  being  put  into  effect  and  commendation  is  due for  the  spirit  and  leadership  which  has  made  this  possible.    An  appropriation  for  this  activity  will  be recommended in the budget. War  Powers  Act.    The  Legislature  of  1943  adopted  a  measure,  No.  6  of  the  Acts  of  1943,  known  as  the “State  Emergency  War  Powers  Act  of  1943.”    Such  an  act,  with  modifications  to  bring  it  up  to  present  day situations, should in my opinion be re-adopted by this legislature, the act to be put into effect in the event of war between  our  country  and  any  foreign  nation  or  to  be  put  into  effect  in  the  event  of  any  surprise  acts  of aggression  against  our  country  by  any  foreign  power  before  a  formal  declaration  of  war  can  be made,    In  this connection attention  is called  to  the  fact  that during  the  last year  there was a  threatened  strike of  electric utility workers  in  the Newport  area because of  a  failure of  the workers  and  the  employer utility  to get  together on  the matter of pay.   A strike by  the workers of an electric utility might cause  the crippling or shutting down of plant activities  thereby  resulting  in possible grave  injury  to  the people of  the  area  serviced by  it.   The  same  situation might  arise  in  connection with  the  operation  of  other  utilities whose work  is of  a  semi-public  nature.    It would appear  as  though,  to  meet  any  such  possible  conditions  arising  and  disrupting  our  normal  economy,  that  the governor  should  be  implemented  with  power  to  seize  and  take  over  the  property  of  the  affected  utility  and provide  for  its  temporary  emergency  operation  until  such  time  as  the  differences  between  management  and labor could be  ironed out.   This grant of power could very well be useful not only  in  the unusual circumstances under which we live today, but as a permanent addition to our statutory law under normal conditions. State Guard.    In  view  of  the  fact  that most  of  our  National  Guard  has  been  activated  into  Federal  service and  other  remaining National Guard  units  in  the  state  have  been  alerted,  the  state will  be  in  the  position  of  not having  adequate  military  forces  available  in  the  event  of  major  disasters  or  emergencies  confronting  us.    I, therefore,  recommend  the  setting  up  of  a  State  Guard  substantially  along  the  lines  provided  for  by  No.  180  of the Acts of 1941, which act first created a State Guard in this state. Soldiers Bonus.   Although  there has been no  formal declaration of war, we are at  the present  time engaged in armed conflict with  the North Korean  forces and  the armies of Communist China.   Vermont boys are giving their  lives  and  their  service  to  the  cause  of  the United Nations  on  the  battlefields  of Korea.    I  recommend  that members  of  the  armed  services  during  the  period  of  armed  conflict  of  war  be  paid  a  bonus  the  same  as  the veterans  of  World  War  I  and  World  War  II  have  been  paid  in  this  state.    An  appropriation  to  implement  this recommendation is provided for in the budget. Aviation.  No one can gainsay the fact that aviation will play an important part in any emergency which war conditions may  thrust  upon  us.   Likewise  its  usefulness  in  aiding  the  development  of  recreational  and  business activity in the state has been slowly but steadily improving.   The money we  have  been  appropriating  for  airport  development  is,  under  existing  statutes,  permitted  to  be used  only  for  airport  construction.    Federal  funds  on  a  matching  basis  have  been  available  for  construction work,  but  not  for maintenance.   There  is  not  as  great  a  demand  upon  this  fund  for  airport  construction  as  there has been, and although the Federal government does not match money we spend for maintenance, still I feel that the  State  should  permit  the  use  of  some  portion  of  this  fund  for  such  purpose  because  this  is  becoming  an increasingly more pressing problem at the twenty-two airports in the state. An equitable formula should be worked out whereby  the state could render some assistance  in  the matter of snow removal and repairs to these airports so that they may be kept in a proper and usable state at all times. In  common  with  eleven  other  states,  in  1923  Vermont  adopted  a  statute  holding  the  owner  or  pilot  of  an aircraft doing damage absolutely  liable as  the result of flight or accident.   Most of  the states which adopted  this legislation  are  now  doing  away  with  it  or  modifying  it  to  a  considerable  degree  and  are  now  providing  that liability  be  predicated  solely  upon  the  basis  of  negligence,  the  same  as  in  automobile  accident  cases.    I recommend that Vermont do likewise. Voting.    I  further  recommend  that  the  legislature  give  careful  consideration  to  the  amendment  of  our election laws to permit to the fullest extent possible voting by members of the armed services in local, state and national elections they might desire to participate in.  RECOMMENDED CHANGES IN DEPARTMENTS The  force  of  our  state  government  activity  and  the  distance  it  has  taken  us  in  the  last  few  years  has  been great.    The  charge  upon  our  earnings  to  support  a  vastly  stepped  up military machine will make  the  task more difficult  at  the  state  level  to  carry  on  our  government. We must  perfect  economies where we  can,  improve  the efficiency of  the  service  to our people and curtail desirable but not absolutely essential activity where possible.  With  these  thoughts  in  mind,  I  turn  to  the  consideration  of  certain  of  our  state  departments  where  I  feel economies and improvements can be made. Vermont Development Commission.  The Vermont Development Commission has proven too expensive a set  up  for  the  state  in  view  of  the  results  obtained  by  it.    I  submit  for  your  consideration  the  following  views relating to the Commission. The magazine “Vermont Life” should be preserved intact and the set up on this continued substantially as is. The  Commission  should  be  replaced  with  a  new  organization  to  be  designated  the  Vermont  Publicity Bureau consisting of a director and a board of three people representative of agriculture, industry and recreation and  the  new  organization  given  an  annual  appropriation  of  $50,000,  this  fund  to  be  used  mainly  for  publicity purposes and to support the State Geology program. There  is  too  much  duplication  of  effort  in  the  state  on  the  work  the  Commission  does  by  other  agencies.  The  Vermont  Industrial  Agricultural  Products  Commission  engages  in  some  research  and  planning  along  the lines  of  promotion  of  agricultural  products  and  industrial  use  of  the  same.    Likewise  the  Department  of Agriculture.    Norwich  University  is  given  an  annual  appropriation  under  the  provisions  of  Vermont  Statute 4505  of  $35,000  annually  and  the  statute  reads  in  part,  “The  trustees  of  the University  shall maintain  a Bureau of  Industrial  Research  for  the  benefit  of  the  industries  of  the  state  and  shall  designate  annually  a  part  of  such appropriation  for  its maintenance.”   Arts  and Crafts  also do  similar work  to  that of  the Commission.   Likewise the Area Development Associations are now doing on an area basis much of the work covered by the activity of the  Commission.    If  my  recommendations  are  adopted  by  you,  the  new  agency  can  very  well  be  a  clearing house  of  information  on  what  we  have  on  hand  to  offer  and  can  cooperate  with  the  Area  Development Associations  and  local Chambers  of Commerce  in making  available  to  these  area  and  local  agencies  economic and  recreational  information  sought  by  outsiders.   The  savings  effected  on  the  basis  of  these  recommendations will be further outlined in the budget. Motor  Vehicle  Department  and  State  Police.    The  matter  of  law  enforcement  is  becoming  a  very expensive proposition for the people of the state.  Requests for appropriations by the Motor Vehicle Department and the State Police for the fiscal years of 1952 and 1953 are as follows:  1952   Motor Vehicle .......................................................................................  $237,461.00 State Police............................................................................................   562,745.17 1953 $246,711.00 613,207.95  ------------------ ------------------   $859,918.95 $800,206.17 Some  have  felt  that  the  sheriff’s  system  should  be  permitted  to  “wither  on  the  vine”  because  it  was  an ineffectual  body  for  accomplishing  efficient  general  law  enforcement.    Others  have  felt  that  there  have  been glaring abuses of the fee system under the old sheriff set-up warranting its abolition.  Under any system, abuses may  creep  in,  but  the  best  remedy  for  them  is  for  the  organization  to  divest  itself  of  its  shortcomings  and honestly  strive  to  accomplish  the  purposes  for which  it  is  created.   The  sheriff’s  system  is  no  exception  to  this rule, and it still has the opportunity to show the public that sheriffs should not be reduced to the ranks of merely civil  process  servers.    Sheriffs  should  always  try  to  command  the  respect  of  the  public  in  the  matter  of  law enforcement.  I believe the sheriffs in the four larger counties of the state are entitled to a paid deputy and in the other counties are entitled to a deputy sheriff on a part time basis. In these trying times, sheriffs ought to call their deputies together and endeavor to school them in the duties of  their office and  the part  they might play  in disaster  relief.   The Sheriff’s  force  in each county should  include some  young  and  vigorous  deputies.    Proper  schooling  in  their  duties  should  be  provided  for  at  least  two members  of  the  sheriff’s  force  each  year  and  sheriffs  should  be  willing  and  desirous  of  coordinating  their activities wherever possible with that of the State Police to accomplish the best kind of team work. With  these  thoughts  in mind,  I would submit  for your careful consideration  the  following observations with reference  to  economies  to  be  effected  and  improvements  in  the  matter  of  general  law  enforcement  to  be obtained. I  favor  the  merging  of  the  Department  of  Motor  Vehicles  into  the  Department  of  Public  Safety  as  now constituted  as  a  division  or  bureau  thereof  and  giving  to  the  new  consolidated  department  a  new  name  such  as Department of Law Enforcement.   The general  supervision and control of  all  the operations,  including  those of the  Fire  Marshal’s  Office,  under  this  new  department  would  be  vested  in  a  Director  of  General  Law Enforcement. The  plan  of  law  enforcement  under  the  general  supervision  and  control  of  such  Director,  contemplating  a force of  sixty men  in  the  field variable  as  to  the number  of  districts  needed  and  the work  load  involved, would be roughly as follows: The  State  would  be  divided  into  ten  districts  and  six  men  would  be  assigned  to  each  district.    One,  who would  be  an  experienced  trooper,  would  be  assigned  by  the  Director  to  the  district,  to  deal  with  general  law enforcement  mainly,  other  than  highway  violations,  would  be  a  liaison  man  between  the  sheriff’s  department and  the  Department  of  Law  Enforcement,  would  cooperate with  the  Sheriff’s  Department  in  the  district  in  the investigation  of  crime  and  apprehension  of  criminals  and  would  assist  sheriffs  in  criminal  work  when  called upon and his duties would permit to the end that the Sheriff’s Department might relieve the Department of Law Enforcement  of  a  substantial  portion of  its  non-highway  activity.   This  trooper would  have  authority  to  call  on the  Sheriff’s  Department  for  assistance  at  any  time.    The  Sheriff’s  Department  would  have  authority  to  call upon  him  at  any  time  as  above  indicated,  and  under  this  set  up  the  facilities  of  the  Department  of  Law Enforcement would be fully available to the Sheriff’s Department when requested. One officer assigned  to  the district would do principally  the work of  inspector and examiner as  that work  is now  carried  on  by  inspectors  and  examiners  in  the  present Motor Vehicle Department,  although  subject  to  call for  assistance  for  general  law  enforcement  activity  and  highway work when  his  principal  duties would  permit.  He  would  also  be  trained  to  carry  on  all  these  various  activities  as  would  all  other  troopers  assigned  to  a particular  district.    I  believe  also  that  in  view  of  the  fact  that  this  officer’s  duties would  take  him  into  urban  as well  as  rural  areas  that  some  plan  ought  to  be  worked  out  whereby  he  could  perform  the  duties  of  liquor inspector  as  those  duties  are  now  performed  by  the  inspectors  of  the  Liquor  Control  Board  and  thereby  save unnecessary  salaries,  travel  and  expense  of  two  different  sets  of  officers  doing  different  work  in  the  same locality.    This  would  mean  the  removal  from  the  Liquor  Control  Board  of  its  inspection  service  and  its placement  under  the  jurisdiction  and  control  of  the  Department  of  Law  Enforcement.    Billboard  inspection could likewise be carried on by this officer and expense saved thereby. The other four men would work in shifts of two, but not necessarily together, the duties of these four men to be  confined  principally  to  highway  patrol  and  checking  for  overweight  vehicles,  but  to  assist  in  non-highway duties  when  called  upon,  their  highway  duties  permitting,  or  when  a  trooper  assigned  to  general  law enforcement was not available.   All  of  these  officers would  cooperate,  if  their  duties would  permit, with  the  Fish  and Game Department  in the detection and apprehension of violators of the Fish and Game Laws. It might  be  that  fewer  districts  than  ten  should  be  set  up  in  the  state,  namely,  eight  or  less,  but  the  over  all scheme  should be a districting  that would permit an equitable and even distribution of work  load  for  these men in  the  respective  areas  of  the  state  they  would  be  placed  in  to  serve.  Use  would  also  be  made  of  existing facilities wherever possible and practicable.    If  the  Department  of  Motor  Vehicles  is  merged  into  a  new  Department  of  Law  Enforcement,  it  could  be very well moved to Redstone and the space now occupied by the Motor Vehicle Department in the State Office Building  utilized  by  other  state  agencies  using  space  we  are  now  paying  rent  on.    Savings  in  office  personnel both  in  the  field  and  at Montpelier  could  be  accomplished  by  this  consolidation.    Furthermore,  in  the  handling of motor vehicle accident reports,  there is,  in my opinion, duplication of effort which could be eliminated  if  the two departments were consolidated as recommended. Other economies which could be effected would be the transfer of the collection of the gasoline tax from the Department of Motor Vehicles to the Tax Department. Consideration  should  be  given  to  the  issuance  of  only  one  registration  plate  to  be  affixed  to  the  rear  of  the car, this registration plate to go for at least two years and the second year a small metal clip only evidencing the year issued for the next year to be attached over the year on the registration plate. A school for the training of recruits and sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and other police officers should be provided for,  implemented with  sufficient  funds  to provide at  least one week’s  intensive  training course, not only  for  the training  of  new  men  who  might  from  time  to  time  join  the  force  of  the  Department  of  Law  Enforcement,  but also for the purpose of building up a trained reservoir of peace officers not on regular pay status, fit to cope with any  emergency.   A Certificate  of Merit  should  be  given  for  the  successful  completion  of  the  course  of  training given by the school. In the consolidation of the two departments as aforesaid, all personnel kept on should retain its classification and pay status as much as circumstances and readjustments will permit. We should never lose sight of the fact that the State Police was set up primarily as a rural constabulary, one purpose  of  it  being  to  supplement  and  assist  in  the work  being  done  by  existing  law  enforcement  agencies.    It should never be designed for the purpose of doing the work of a national or state guard. It  is  felt  that  by  this  proposed  consolidation,  the  new  department  could  operate  much  more  cheaply  and economically  than  the  two departments  are  at present.   When you  receive my budget message, you will  realize the  full  impact  of  the  task  facing  us  to  secure  funds with which  to  carry  on  an  adequate  highway  program  and the need for savings where they can be made. State Personnel Board.  Some savings could be effected by doing away with the State Personnel Board.  In my opinion the Governor should be authorized to appoint a Director of State Personnel.  This director should be empowered  to  make  rules  and  regulations  governing  the  matter  of  personnel  subject  to  the  approval  of  the Governor.    I do not  favor  the  setting  up of  a  separate departmental  appropriation  for  the State Personnel Board at  this  time.   However,  if you decide  that  the State Personnel Board should be continued,  its  function should be that of a policy making rather than an administrative board. PLANNING OUR ECONOMIC FUTURE Power.    In  spite  of  the  unsettled  world  conditions  under  which  we  live,  we  must  continue  to  plan  for  our future  economic  well  being  and  the  subject  of  power,  in  my  opinion,  is  one  that  merits  very  careful consideration  by  this  Legislature.    Demand  for  more  power  doubles  itself  very  rapidly.    If  we  are  to  give anything  more  than  lip  service  to  the  idea  we  should  keep  young  Vermonters  in  the  state,  further  power development must go hand in hand with economic development. I  have  certain  thoughts  in  connection  with  this  subject  which  I  pass  on  to  you  so  that  you  may  carefully weigh and consider the same. I recommend: A.    Re-development  of  existing  power  projects  and  development  of  feasible  power  sites,  where  possible, without doing substantial injury to agriculture. B.   Flood control dams  to be used  for water storage for power purposes, where  they can properly serve  that purpose and state policy in the future that they be built for this dual purpose where practicable. There  is now being proposed  to be built a flood control dam  in  the Town of Victory having as one phase of its  development  the  storage  of  water  for  power  purposes.    The  location  is  ideal  for  both  purposes  and  also  for recreation.  The overall construction cost of such a multi-purpose dam would be around $3,000,000 and to build it, very  little critical war material would be needed.   Three situations present  themselves  in connection with  the possible erection of such a dam.  (1) The Federal government might build it, pre-empt the income to be derived from  the  power  phase  of  it,  and  leave  the  states  to  be  affected  by  its  flood  control  features  to  regulate  that problem by interstate compact, or in the absence of an agreement on such a compact, deal with the flood control phase  at  the  National  level.    (2)  The  dam  might  be  built  by  interstate  compact,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the Congress.    (3)  The  state  could  build  the  dam  and  appropriate  the  income,  which  I  understand  might  be considerable, towards the payment of costs and eventual lowering of electric rates for our people. We  here  in  Vermont  are  prone  to  be  jealous  of  our  sovereignty  and  to  inveigh  against  Federal encroachments  upon  it.    This  is  as  it  should  be.    However,  as  an  overall  thought,  we  should  keep  the  Federal government  from  pre-empting  the  field.    Flood  control  and  incidental  storage  of  water  for  power  purposes  I conceive  to  be  legitimate  state  activity.    The  idea  of  a  planned  system  of  such  storage  dams  to  prolong  stream flow I feel  to be a meritorious one.   You may wish  to  implement  the Public Service Commission or some other established state agency with authority to look into and study these matters and take such action relating thereto as  you may  authorize  it  to  take.   You may  feel  that  now  is  not  the  opportune  time  to  take  action  thereon.   The question  is  posed  for  you  to  give  it  careful  and  considered  analysis  and  decision  in  the  best  interests  of  the people of our state.  C.   Development  of  firm  sources  of  power  by  the  utility  or  tie-in with  a  firm  source  of  power  sufficient  to cope  with  the  conditions  which  heretofore  have  resulted  in  blackouts,  dimouts  and  brown-outs  in  certain sections of the state. D.  Submission of data by the utility to the Public Service Commission of its anticipated growth for the next decade and its plans to meet that growth. E.    Authority  to  the  Public  Service  Commission  to  determine  and  order  where  needed,  high  power transmission  lines  to  be  built  or  rebuilt,  to  integrate  utility  systems,  for  the  purpose  of  insuring  firm  and reasonable  cost  sources  of  power;  authority  to  allocate  costs  of  construction  or  rebuilding  according  to  the benefits received and  if  the affected utility or utilities claim  they are unable  to secure funds  to finance  the same and  the  Public  Service  Commission  so  determines,  then  there  should  be  submitted  to  the  Legislature  the question of  the  state guaranteeing  the cost  to be paid out of utility  revenues.    In  the event St. Lawrence seaway power  ever  becomes  available  to  us,  the  importance  of  an  integrated  system  in  permitting  the  Public  Service Commission to competently operate as the bargaining, receiving and distributing agency for and in behalf of the private, municipal and cooperative systems in Vermont, is self-apparent. Natural  Gas.    I  recommend  that  the  Public  Service  Commission  be  authorized  and  instructed  to  make  a study  of  the  possibility  of  procuring  natural  gas  by  pipeline  for  Vermont  and  make  a  report  to  the  Governor thereon as soon as it is possible so to do.  STATE SERVICES There  are  certain of our  traditional obligations  and  responsibilities of government which we  as  a  state must carry out to the fullest extent possible even under the trying circumstances of the times.  Certain phases of these responsibilities  which  I  think  should  be  particularly  called  to  your  attention  are  hereinafter  set  forth  in  this message.    They  will  also  be  further  specifically  dealt  with  in  my  budget  message  and  for  that  reason  I  do  not elaborate upon them in detail at this time.   Education.   Vermont Statutes Section 3563 provides  in  substance  that when a  town or  town  school district at the end of its fiscal year has a deficit, the selectmen shall assess a tax in multiples of five to provide sufficient revenue  to  liquidate  the  same.    In  the  application  of  this  statute,  viewed  in  connection  with  the  provisions  of Vermont Statutes Section 3595 and Section 4221, some conflict arises as to when a town school district’s fiscal year  ends.   The  question  is  important  because  of  the  possible  loss  of  state  aid  to  the  town  school  district  if  the deficit  is  not  met  as  provided  by  Vermont  Statutes  Section  3563.    These  statutes  should  be  clarified  and harmonized. We  should  have  foreseen  several  years  ago  the  effect  that  changes  like  better  rural  roads  and  better instruction  to  rural  youth  in  bigger  groups  would  have  upon  education  and  amended  our  Constitution accordingly  to  permit  the  meeting  of  these  changing  conditions.    There  seems  to  be  no  difficulty  on  the consolidation of towns in an area for high school purposes and this should be encouraged in all situations where feasible and larger taxing districts set up so that the necessary cost of building a consolidated high school could more  easily be met.   Plans  should  also be worked out  for  the  levying of  taxes on  the  larger unit  in order  to pay plant costs and to provide the best instruction and adequate transportation.  However, there is doubt in my mind as  to  the  legal  right  of  two  or  more  towns  to  consolidate  their  elementary  schools  and  for  that  reason  there should  be  an  amendment  to  the Constitution  if  towns wish  to  attack  the  elementary  school  consolidation  on  an area  rather  than  a  town  basis.    However,  I  do  not  believe  that  consolidation  should  be  forced  upon  a  town because the determination of the number of schools therein is a matter of local self-government which should be preserved.    Undoubtedly,  the  impact  of  the  need  for  additional  school  buildings  and  the  urge  for  better  school instruction will help to push school consolidations along at the local level. Because  of  higher  school  costs,  this  legislature  should  give  consideration  to  the  raising  of  tuition  rates payable by towns sending elementary and high school students to other towns or school districts for instruction.   I  favor  the  continuation  of  the  present  existing  teachers  colleges  for  the  state  and  further  recommend  that legislation  be  adopted  placing  Lyndon  Normal  Teachers  College  on  a  permanent  basis  with  Johnson  and Castleton.  Welfare.    I  do  not  feel  that  we  need  a  separate  juvenile  court  for  Vermont  to  deal  with  the  case  of dependent,  neglected  and  delinquent  children  at  this  time.   My  studies  and  experiences  lead me  to  believe  that the  present  system  of  the municipal  courts  sitting  as  juvenile  courts  and  having  the  advantage  of  reports made by  experienced  case workers  to  assist  them  is  adequate  under  the  conditions which  exist  in Vermont  to  handle the situation. The  governors  of  the  three  states  of  Maine,  New  Hampshire  and  Vermont  met  at  Concord  this  last  fall  to discuss  the  feasibility  of  jointly  building  and  constructing  a  plant  for  the  care  of  defective  delinquents.    A survey has shown that there are no existing adequate facilities in any of the three states to deal with this class of unfortunates.   A  recent  report  by Austin M. MacCormick,  executive  director  of  the Osborne Association,  Inc., indicates  the  plant  would  cost  approximately  $2,000,000  to  build  today,  a  sum  it  is  not  practical  for  us  in Vermont  to contribute our proportionate share  to at  this  time.   However, I do feel that authority to make further study  in  cooperation  with  the  other  interested  states,  looking  toward  a  possible  ultimate  solution  of  such  a problem should be granted by this legislature to the Governor or some department designated by him. It  is  my  further  belief  that  municipal  judges  should  screen  the  cases  of  young  delinquents  who  might  be committed to Weeks School very carefully and that like case screening in these times of full employment ought to be made of applicants for aid to dependent children. Health.   In view of the growing shortage of trained nurses, I recommend that the legislature approve of the licensing of practical nurses.   Again, because of  the fact  that more doctors and dentists are apt  to be  taken from our  civilian  life  to  meet  the  medical  needs  of  the  armed  services,  we  should  do  some  planning  for  their replacement.    I  recommend  a  modest  plan  to  subsidize  through  scholarships  a  limited  number  of  prospective young  doctors  and  dentists  who  will  agree  to  practice  in  a  Vermont  country  district  for  five  years  after graduation,  and  I  recommend  further  a  recruitment  and  training program  that will  insure  eventual district nurse coverage for all the communities of the state. Unfortunate  differences  of  opinion,  apparently  incapable  of  reconciliation,  have  prevented  the  construction of the state health laboratory authorized by the 1949 legislature.  These differences should have been reconciled and the laboratory built long before now so it might be servicing the health needs of the state.  I have examined the  provisions  of  No.  184  of  the  Acts  of  1949  creating  a  new  and  enlarged  Department  of  Health  and  feel  the Act  created  too  elaborate  a  set  up  for  our  small  state.    Agencies  such  as  the  Vermont  Sanatorium,  the Washington  County  Sanatorium,  the  Brattleboro  Retreat,  the  Vermont  State  Hospital  and  the  Brandon  State School  have  only  an  indirect  connection  with  a  Department  of  Health  and  powers  and  duties  relating  to  them could  better  have  been  left  under  the  Department  of  Institutions  and  Corrections.    Likewise,  Section  10, Subdivision III and Section 13 seem to authorize councils and divisions within the Department of Health whose number and extent are limited only by the size of the overall appropriation which the legislature grants.   Such a situation  calls  for  careful  and  discriminating  analysis  by  you  of  the  experience  the  Department  of  Health  has had  for  the  last  two  years with  a  view  to  keeping  that which  has  proven  good  and  discarding  those  councils  or divisions we can do without. If  my  recommendations  above  outlined  are  adopted,  the  Department  of  Health  then  resulting  therefrom should be housed and maintained where the state laboratory is built.  Trends the country over seem to be to have the  executive  and  administrative  office  of  a  Department  of  Health  at  the  place  where  the  health  laboratory  is located.  I can see no practical objection to this in our small state.  Valuable time in matters affecting the public health  and  considerable  expense  in  travel,  lodging  and  telephoning  could  be  saved  if  top  command  and laboratory worker were together.  Many good arguments exist for having both located at the seat of government.  However, my own feeling in the matter, which this Legislature may give such consideration to as it sees fit is to favor Burlington as an overall location for two reasons:  (1) There will be readily available for use if needed the facilities  of  the  Medical  College;  (2)  In  the  Burlington  area  is  located  the  greatest  concentration  of  hospital service in the state. Highways.   Basically, we want  to  see  our  state  and  state  aid  highways  properly maintained  and  kept  in  an adequate  state of  repair at all  times.    It  is  important,  likewise,  that  the  state go  forward,  if possible, on  its plans to  give  to  every  farmer  the  advantage  of  at  least  a  good  gravel  road  from  his  home  to  the  market  place.  However,  existing  statutory  sources  of  revenue  for  the  town  roads  should  not  be  enlarged  upon  for  town  road purposes  at  this  time.    It  has  been  and  should  continue  to  be  the  policy  of  the  state  to match  all  Federal  funds available for highway construction.  Of course, the extent of our highway program for the next two years will be contingent  upon many  factors  that  are  uncertain  at  the  present  time.    To  implement  a  highway  program  of  the above  nature  is  going  to  take  considerably more  funds.    This  subject  will  be  further  dealt  with  in  detail  in  the budget message to be delivered to you later. OTHER PHASES OF STATE ACTIVITY Some  factors  in  the  promotion  of  our well  being which  I  feel  are  important  to mention  at  this  time  are  the following: Labor.    We  must  be  ever  mindful  of  those  who  become  unemployed  because  of  adverse  economic conditions.  Their  welfare  is  an  obligation  which  the  state  has  assumed  through  the  Unemployment Compensation Fund provided for by taxes paid by business.  This fund should be kept in such a sound state that there  will  be  no  question  of  the  protection  of  our  people  when  and  if  they  are  thrown  out  of  work  because employment is not available in our industries. It  is  recommended  that  the  law  be  changed  so  that  no  employer’s  tax  rate  be  affected  by  payment  of  a claimant’s benefits unless such claimant has worked  for  the employer a certain period of  time and has earned a given amount of money. The  number  of  hearings  handled  by  the  Unemployment  Compensation  Commission  has  increased considerably lately by reason of the activity of benefits.  It is, therefore, recommended that the Commission, on appeals  to  it, act as a review body reviewing where proper  the decision of  the referee and  that  the referee act as hearing  officer  or  trail  examiner.    By  doing  this,  all  rights  of  the  parties  would  be  amply  protected,  and  this would  give  the  Commission  more  time  for  its  other  duties.    Likewise,  the  Legislature  should  explore  the disqualification  provision  of  the  Unemployment  Compensation  Law  in  order  to  make  these  provisions  more explicit and effective. I  recommend  that  this  Legislature  give  consideration  to  the  adoption  of  an  occupational  disease  law,  such law not to be a blanket one, but to cover known industrial hazards in the state and to be a law that would be fair to industry and fair to labor. Agriculture.   The Vermont  farmer did a very good  job  in  the production of  food during World War  II.   He may be called upon again to repeat his performance of that time. We  should  continue  with  our  present  Bang’s  disease  program  set  up  in  the  state  for  the  benefit  of  the farmers and should also encourage better facilities and information on the control of mastitis. Forest.   The  forests of our state are very  important  to our economy as everyone well knows.   As one phase of  getting  more  reforestation  in  Vermont,  I  recommend  you  give  careful  consideration  to  providing  for  the placing  in  every  town  meeting  warning  an  article  each  year  to  see  if  the  town  will  vote  to  set  up  a  municipal forest until the article has been favorably acted upon or unless the town has a municipal forest.  We  must  also  give  careful  consideration  to  our  timber  cutting  practices  with  a  view  to  the  more  general observance  of  the  rules  and  regulations  made  by  the  Board  of  Forests  and  Forest  Parks.    I  do  not  favor  the inclusion  of  penalties  into  the  existing  law  to  compel  observance  of  such  rules  and  regulations  of  the Board  at this  time  because  it  would  seem  that  the  education  of  timer  owners  in  conservation  and  good  timber  cutting practices under the County Forester System is slowly beginning to bear fruit. I recommend that this Legislature give careful consideration to the matter of our present tax policies relating to  timber  land  and  endeavor  to work  out  a  solution whereby  the  timber  owner will  not  feel  that  he  is  forced  to liquidate  his  holdings  in  order  to  avoid  burdensome  taxation.   He  should  be  given  every  encouragement  in  the reforesting of denuded timberlands. Stream  Pollution.    It  is  important  that  we  remain  ever  mindful  of  the  fact  that  one  of  our  long-range objectives  must  be  the  cleaning  up  of  pollution  in  our  lakes  and  streams.    For  this  purpose,  I  believe  there  is engineering assistance available and  it should be  furnished  the  towns of  the state  in planning for  the mastery of their sewage problem.  We should further press forward with our classification of waters program, if possible. OTHER MATTERS I  might  say  that  there  are  other  matters  which  will  be  more  fully  dealt  with  in  my  budget  message  which time will not permit me  to deal with under  this  inaugural message.   However, I mention  two of  importance, not treated therein.   Racial Discrimination.  During the period of the Civil War the Vermonter was the most ardent advocate of the  abolition  of  slavery.    This  was  because  of  our  abhorrence  of  the  idea  that  man,  whatever  the  color  of  his skin,  should  ever be  the  slave of man.   We were  imbued with  the  idea  that America  really meant  a  land of  free opportunity  where  men  of  all  races,  colors  and  creeds  would  be  on  an  equality  with  each  other.    In  this  true Vermont tradition we here in this state should look with disfavor upon any discrimination against any individual by reason of his race.   I,  therefore, recommend  that  the Governor be authorized  to appoint a committee of  three disinterested  individuals  to  investigate  the  matter  of  racial  discrimination  in  Vermont,  and  if  the  report  of  this committee indicates that such racial discrimination exists, that such discrimination be barred by statute.   Microfilming  Of  Records.    Some  of  our  Public  Records  are  in  poor  shape  and  not  adequately  housed.  Increase  in  the  volume  of  Public  Records  must  be  expected  as  the  years  go  by.    Such  growth  is  a  problem confronting all states and some day will necessitate more building space being provided for storage unless there is  some  other  solution  to  the  problem.    I  recommend  that  the  Public  Records  Commission  be  authorized  and instructed  to  make  careful  study  of  the  feasibility  of  microfilming  our  public  records  and  report  and  make recommendations to the next Legislature for such action as it may see fit to take.  CONCLUSION In conclusion, let me leave this thought with you.  My recollections go back to a picture.  It is one that left a vivid impression on me as a youth.  The picture is that of a Puritan going to church.  His wife accompanies him.  In the crook of his right arm he carries a musket.  His mission in that journey is to carry out his God-given duty and  responsibility  to  worship  the  Deity  according  to  the  dictates  of  his  own  conscience.    His  musket  is  for protection if sudden onslaught by the savage arrests him in his course. Like  this  Puritan  and  his  wife  of  old,  we  want  to  journey  onward  in  the  performance  of  our  duties  and responsibilities  to  the  people.    But  like  the  Puritan,  we  may  be  suddenly  arrested  in  our  course,  or  forced  to proceed  with  cautious  tread.   We  Vermonters  have  always  been  a  hardy  and  self-reliant  people,  willing  to  lay aside  the  plans  of  the  moment  in  order  to  perform  other  or  more  arduous  duties  which  the  exigencies  of  the times may thrust upon us.  That may be the position we will find ourselves in once again.  This thought must be continually kept in mind in the deliberations we are about to embark upon.  Let us in the true Vermont tradition weigh  well  our  responsibilities  and  duties  during  this  session  of  the  Legislature  and  endeavor  as  much  as circumstances will  permit  to  carry  on  good  government  for  the  benefit  of  the  people  of  our  state.   At  the  same time  let  us  promise  ourselves  that  if  ordinary  pursuits  and  the  orderly  course  of  our  governmental  progress temporarily  have  to  be  sidetracked  because  of  war  conditions,  we  as  true  Vermonters  willingly  accept  such difficulties as necessary to preserve the democratic way of life.