Inaugural address of  Paul Dillingham  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  House of Representatives  Annual Session,  1865  Friday, October 13, 18654 Inaugural Address   Gentlemen of the Senate  and House of Representatives: After  the  anxiety  and  agitation  of  four  years  of  bloody  war  waged  by  the  Union  for  the  preservation  of national existence, we are permitted again to meet, in the calm of peace, to discharge those duties imposed upon us by the Constitution, and demanded by the best interests of the people we represent. During  the past year  it has pleased Almighty God  to grant us great and signal mercies; for  this  let us  join  in rendering Him  our  humble  thanksgivings, while we  sincerely  implore His  aid  and guidance  in  the discharge of all our official and personal duties. $1,585,172 95 -------------------- $2,009,269 51 $207,575 56 FINANCES From  the  Treasurer’s  report,  herewith  submitted  to  you,  it  appears  that  the  balance  of  cash  in  the  treasury, September 5, 1864, was $424,096 56 That the receipts into the treasury from all other sources during the year to September 5, 1865, were    Making in all the sum of That during the year there has been paid out and disbursed 1,996,772 50  the sum of --------------------    Leaving in the treasury, Sept. 5, 1865, $12,497 01 The  funded  liabilities  of  the  State,  Sept.  5,  1865,  amounted  to  $1,650,000  00,  consisting  of  outstanding  State bonds. The present current liabilities of the State are The current resources, including the balance in the treasury, Sept. 5, 1865, are   Making an excess of current liabilities of The estimated expenses for the current year, are: 108,750 00 For interest on bonds and loans, 175,000 00 For all other State expenses, ----------------------   $467,913 96 Making to be provided for, The grand list of the State is about one million of dollars, and a tax of fifty cents on the dollar will probably raise money sufficient to cover the current liabilities of the year. We are not to forget, however, that we have a large funded debt which will be burthensome to meet, if none of  it  is  provided  for  before  it  falls  due.    The  close  of  the  war,  and  the  return  of  our  soldiers,  has  very  greatly diminished  our  current  expenses,  and  at  the  same  time  our  agricultural,  and  all  the  other  industrial  interests  of the  State,  were  never  in  a  more  prosperous  and  healthy  condition;  and  I  feel  confident  that  any  amount  of taxation, demanded by  the best  interests of  the State, will be met cheerfully by  the people, and  its payment will not be felt as burthensome. The  Treasurer  estimates  that  a  State  tax  of  sixty-five  cents,  on  the  grand  list  of  this  year,  would  raise $150,000  above  the  current  expenditures,  to  be  applied  in  purchasing  in  outstanding  State  Bonds;  and  that  for the  next  six  years  a  tax  of  forty  cents  on  the  dollar  of  the  grand  list,  yearly, will  raise  a  sum  sufficient  to meet $23,411 60 --------------------- $184,163 96  the  current  expenses of  the State, and  leave  a yearly  surplus of $150,000,  to be used  in buying  the State Bonds as  they  come  into  market.    Should  this  be  done  to  that  extent,  in  1871  but  $750,000  of  our  funded  debt  will remain unpaid; a sum that can easily be provided for as the bonds fall due. Our  State  Bonds  are  now  selling  at  a  discount  of  four  or  five  per  cent.,  and  should  gold  continue  to command a premium, as it will be likely to do for a considerable time yet to come, this, with the fact the general government  and most  of  the  states  are  paying  a  higher  rate  of  interest  than  is  paid  on  our  bonds, will  probably depress their market value to a still lower point.  If the State is in funds to go into the market as a purchaser with others, it will be able to make a positive gain on its purchases, beside stopping the accruing interest. Connected  with  this  subject  of  raising  money  by  taxation,  we  are  to  remember  that  all  our  property,  no matter  by  what  name  called,  except  such  as  is  expressly  exempted  by  positive  law,  should  bear  its  equal proportion  in  the  burthen  of  taxation.    If  our  laws  produce  that  result  now,  then  all  is well  on  that  score;  but  if they fail to accomplish that end, your scrutiny should lead you to their proper amendment. SALARIES AND FEES By our present  law,  the  state’s  attorneys of  the  several  counties  are  salaried officers.   Compensation  in  this mode  is made more  to  depend  upon  the  population  of  the  several  counties,  than  on  the  labor  done  and  service rendered  to  the State;  and  I  submit  to  your  judgment whether  this mode has not  a natural  tendency  to diminish watchfulness  over  the  public  interest  by  those  officers.    As  far  as  my  own  personal  observation  extends,  I  am induced  to  believe  that  crime,  now,  is  not  so  thoroughly  ferreted  out,  and  the  criminal  so  certainly  brought  to trial,  conviction  and  punishment,  as when  these  officers were  paid  for what  they  did,  and  for  nothing more.    If this be the fact, our present law is defective and unwise. JUVENILE OFFENDERS Permit  me,  gentlemen,  to  call  your  attention  to  that  class  of  the  rising  generation  denominated  juvenile offenders.    This  class  embraces  children  of  both  sexes,  and  their  number  is  very  sensibly  on  the  increase.    To reform such, while they are undergoing restraint as a punishment, should be our unceasing endeavor.  Very few crimes  committed by  this  class  are punished by  confinement  in  the State Prison,  and  though  confinement  there is  somewhat  reformatory,  yet  the  stigma  of  having  been  in State Prison  is  almost  forever  ineffaceable.   Far  the greater number of  juvenile offenders are, of necessity, punished by  confinement  in  the  county  jails, where  they are most generally associated with old and hardened criminals, who at once devote themselves to teaching these children  the  art  and  mysteries  of  crime;  so  that,  when  discharged,  instead  of  being  reformed,  they  are  more likely to be thoroughly corrupted. Would  it  not  be  for  the  true  interests  of  the  State  to  establish  a  home,  or  house  of  refuge,  where  this  class could  be  confined,  under  such  regulations  as  would  be  likely  to  minister  both  instruction  and  reform,  in connection with a just and merciful punishment? COMMON SCHOOLS. The  report  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Education  shows,  upon  the whole,  an  encouraging  state  of  our common  schools.   The  efficiency  and  success of  these  schools, which are  the nurseries of our  coming men and women, cannot be over-estimated. It  seems  that  teaching  in  these  schools  is  gradually  passing  from  male  to  female  hands,  with  an  apparent proportional  improvement  in  the  schools.    This  is  flattering  to  female  teachers,  but  speaks  poorly  of  the  other class.  I  fear  that  the  better  class  of  male  teachers  leave  the  State  for  other  localities,  where  their  services command  a  better  remuneration,  -  leaving  the  less  competent  and  accomplished  teachers  to  polish  our  home jewels. Should  not  the  character,  learning  and  aptness  to  teach,  on  the  part  of  those  offering  themselves  for examination, be more thoroughly ascertained before they receive a certificate; or, if this is not practicable, could not  something be done, by  requiring graded  certificates, distinguishing between  the  candidate of  a  low  class of qualifications,  and  the  one  who  is  a  thorough  scholar  and  apt  to  teach.    This  might  serve  to  stimulate  those proposing  to  teach  to  greater  improvement,  and  also  aid  the  school  committee  more  easily  to  ascertain  the fitness of those offering to teach. DEAF, DUMB AND BLIND. The expense of our State pupils, deaf, dumb and blind, who are now  receiving  instruction at  the  institutions designated by  law,  has very much  increased,  so  that  an  increase of  the  standing yearly  appropriations  for  these unfortunate  classes  of  our  citizens  should  be  made.    There  are  now  twenty-one  deaf  and  dumb  pupils  at  the Asylum  at Hartford, Connecticut.   Until  the past year,  the expense of each pupil yearly was $125; but  last year the  price was  raised  to  $200,  of which  notice was  given  to  the Governor  of  the  State.   He,  however,  believing that it would not be in accordance with the humanity of our people to withdraw any of our pupils for this cause, permitted  them  to  remain.    Their  expense  will  exceed  present  appropriations  for  the  year.    I  therefore recommend  an  appropriation  to  meet  the  deficiency,  of  a  sum  not  exceeding  $1000.    The  New  England institution  for  the  instruction  of  the  blind  also  raised  their  charges  from  $200  to  $250  per  year.    I  therefore submit to you the propriety of increasing the annual appropriation for the deaf and dumb to a sum not exceeding six thousand dollars; and that for the benefit of the blind to a sum not exceeding thirty-five hundred dollars. SOLDIERS’ NATIONAL CEMETERY AT GETTYSBURG. In  December,  1863,  the  committee  having  that  matter  in  charge,  estimated  the  whole  expense  of  that cemetery,  including  a monument,  at  the  sum  of  $63,500,  and  $25,000  of  this was  designed  for  the monument.  On  that estimate,  the proportion of Vermont was $1,260, which, under  the appropriation of  the  last session, has been paid; but,  immediately after  those estimates were made, a great  rise  in  the price of  labor, and materials of all  descriptions,  took  place,  so  that  the  estimate  falls  short  of  the  actual  expenses,  by  about  fifty  per  cent.  Everything connected with  the cemetery  is completed, except  the monument.   The corner stone of  that was  laid July  4,  1865,  and  the  work  is  in  an  advanced  state  of  completion.    The  balance  of  our  State  proportion  of  the whole cost is $630, which has already been drawn for on the Executive, but its payment awaits an appropriation by the Legislature.  I hope it may be promptly made, as the faith of the State is pledged for our proportion. MILITARY War  has  ceased;  the  great  rebellion,  conceived  in  sin  and  brought  forth  in  iniquity, which  purposed  no  less than  the  destruction  of  our  nationality  and  the  death  of  our  Union,  while  it  made  permanent  and  forever perpetuated  the  abominable  institution  of  negro  slavery  as  an  American  institution,  has  been  overcome, conquered  and  beaten  down;  and,  in  the  merciful  providence  of  an  overruling  God,  slavery  and  the  rebellion came  to an end  together.   They both died at  the  same  time,  and we may well hope  that neither will ever have a resurrection.    In  their place, Freedom and Peace are assuming  their benign and  rightful sway.   Our prayers may well be, that of their dominion there shall be no end. The  Adjutant  and  Inspector  General’s  very  valuable  report  will  fully  advise  you  as  to  the  number  of  men furnished by  the State  for  the  late war, and  to what extent  they have been discharged and mustered out.    It also gives you  the needed  information as  to what has been done  in arming, uniforming and organizing  the militia of the State, during the past year.  During  the  war  since  1861,  it  appears  that  Vermont  has  furnished  thirty-four  thousand  five  hundred  and fifty-five men;  thirty  thousand  seven  hundred  and  fifty-five  of  these were  volunteers,  and  three  thousand  eight hundred were drafted men, and  substitutes  furnished.   From  this  it will be  seen  that, during  the war, about one-ninth  of  our  entire  population  served  as  soldiers.    This  is  a  bright  and  glorious  record  for Vermont.   And  such soldiers,  too!  bravest  among  the  brave;  none  better  ever  adorned  the history of  any  state  or  nation.   We  owe  to these  noble  men,  living  or  dead,  at  imperishable  debt  of  gratitude,  love  and  honor.    This  debt  should  be recognized by such marks of respect and justice as legislation only can furnish. Since  the  war  closed,  our  troops  have  been  mustered  out  from  time  to  time,  till,  on  the  first  of  October, 1865,  we  had  in  service  only  the  Seventh  Regiment,  numbering  five  hundred  and  eighty-two  men;  and  four companies  of  the  Ninth  Regiment,  numbering  three  hundred  and  eighty-eight  men;  total,  nine  hundred  and seventy. Since  that date an order has been  issued  for mustering out  the  four companies of  the Ninth Regiment, and  I am  informed,  that  it  is  the purpose War Department  to muster out  the Seventh Regiment during  the present  fall or  coming  winter.    When  this  is  done,  our  State  expenses  for  pay  to  soldiers  and  aid  to  their  families  will entirely cease. If other subjects come to my notice during the session, demanding your action, I shall communicate them to you  without  delay.    I  am  not  unaware,  gentlemen,  that  the  whole  field  of  legislation  is  open  to  you,  and  that your  own  experience  and  vigilance  will  doubtless  lead  you  to  all  proper  legislation,  while  your  prudence  will prevent all that is unnecessary. OUR STATE The  fundamental  law  of  our  State  declares,  “that  all  men  are  born  equally  free  and  independent,  and  have certain  natural,  inherent  and  inalienable  rights,  among  which  are  the  enjoying  and  defending  life  and  liberty, acquiring, possessing and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining happiness and  safety.”   Our motto  is “FREEDOM AND UNITY.”   Our  laws and  institutions are all based on  the principles  so early avowed.    In  the  face of  the  law, we are all equal; at  the ballot box,  in our courts of  justice, and  in all our  institutions of  learning, our rights  are  the  same,  no matter what  is  our  color,  or what  our  race.   On  this basis of  equality we have  lived  and prospered.    From  its  effects  we  have  not  felt  or  feared  social  degradation.    Our  people  are  intelligent,  frugal, industrious, enterprising, prosperous and happy; and we cannot but hope that the equality, which has so blessed us, may yet, and speedily, become the primary law of every state in our Union. I  close  this  communication  by  the  expression  of  an  earnest  hope,  that  you,  gentlemen,  in  all  your deliberations,  may  be  guided  by  an  earnest  desire  so  to  legislate  that  your  labors  shall  tend  to  increase  the material interests of the people, and add lustre and honor to our beloved State.  May the blessing God rest upon your labors, and crown them with happy results. } EXECUTIVE CHAMBER, Montpelier, Oct. 13, 1865. PAUL DILLINGHAM.