Inaugural address of  Philip H. Hoff  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1967     Thursday, January 5, 1967 Inaugural Address  My Fellow Vermonters: Four  years  ago,  when  I  first  stood  before  you  as  Governor,  I  suggested  that  we  pause  to  reassess  our strengths  and  weaknesses  as  a  state…that  we  inventory  our  resources  and  needs…  that  we  set  realistic priorities for the future. We charted a course and have moved ahead. I need not detail our progress here. You know it well. It is a matter of pride to us all. Yet, the pace of change is such that our progress as a state must be greatly accelerated. We must be ever mindful of our responsibilities not only to ourselves but also to future generations of Vermonters. We  assemble  again  today  to  reaffirm  the  power  and  authority  of  free  choice  in  our  society.  We  must address ourselves again to the task of providing direction to the great changes taking place in our state. The world  today demands  that we do more  than  reaffirm our past efforts and  rededicate ourselves  to  the public good. These  times  demand  continuing  reappraisal  of  our  collective  objectives  as  well  as  of  our  individual goals. The  forces  at  work  in  our  state  and  nation  demand  that  we  reexamine  the  very  goals  we  espouse  as  a society. We find our system of values under constant challenge. The law of the jungle – the survival of the fittest – is being replaced by a new humanism which tempers the lassez faire of the human spirit. We must  act  today  to meet more  than mere  needs  for  survival. We have  the  resources  and  the  talents  to plan and work  for more  than minimum  standards. We address ourselves  today  to creating  the conditions  for a  full  life.  We  now  must  create  policies  more  on  the  basis  of  achieving  what  we  can  become  than  on  the basis of what is necessary to merely catch up or keep pace with the world. In Vermont we have recently capitalized upon this new concern for the common good. This is evidenced by the increasingly active role of religion in community affairs. It  is  illustrated by  the new  awareness  of  the private  sector of  the  economy  that  its  social  responsibilities extend  far  beyond  the  cold  calculation  of  a  balance  sheet.  Indeed,  our  businesses  today  increasingly  weigh economic  profit  and  loss  on  a  social  scale.  Our  academic  community  no  longer  screens  itself  from  the human condition with an ivy curtain.  Society has put man into fresh focus within the context of a world community. This  fact  alone  makes  it  incumbent  upon  us  to  move  beyond  the  myths  of  the  past—myths  that  we  all know are honored in public by those same persons who discredit them in private. Token action is no more appropriate today than are token words. Ours is the task to match rhetoric with responsibility and debate with deeds. We have yet to do many things that must be done if Vermont is to maintain its new rank among our more progressive  states.  We  have  yet  to  do  other  things  that  must  be  done  if  Vermont’s  progress  is  to  be meaningful for those who come after us. Ours is a small state with tremendous and as yet relatively untapped and unspoiled natural resources. Our population remains relatively small although expanding in numbers and talents. This is at once our continuing challenge and our immediate opportunity. The  challenge  will  always  be  with  us.  But  time  is  running  out  on  our  opportunity  to  blend  present resources into future possibilities for an ideal society.  The voters of Vermont have demonstrated their desire to fill in the details of the dream of a better life—a life where every man is provided the means to realize fully his potential and to exploit fully his leisure time. Vermont has historically been a byway, politically as well as geographically. This is no longer true. And, despite our respect for the past, we cannot act as though it is still true. Each  day  we  are  more  and  more  threatened  by  the  ever  sprawling  cities  and  suburbs  to  the  north  and south of us. Our lakes, rivers and streams are increasingly objects of new exploitation. Just  as  Vermont  was  once  a  corridor  for  the  French  and  Indians,  for  the  early  pioneers  seeking  new freedom  and  living  space,  Vermont  today  is  a  corridor,  but  less  for  the  movement  of  people  than  for  new population, new commerce and new industry. Full  recognition  of  the  pressures  of  this  population  surge  must  be  incorporated  in  our  attack  on  the problems of Vermont today and for the future. Ours  is  the  task  of  meeting  today’s  needs  with  the  vision  and  foresight  required  to  guide  future development at the same time. To  do  this  realistically, we must  break with  those  social  and  political  vestiges  of  the  past  that  no  longer serve the realities of the present and the known potential of the future. The  progress  of  the  past  several  years  has  given  us  a  new  base  from  which  to  view  the  future.  But, progress is relative and today’s vision of our advance has added new dimensions to tomorrow’s needs. We have talked for years about the absolute necessity for updating our state constitution. It  has  been  found  to  be  in  conflict  with  the  supreme  law  of  the  land.  Yet,  efforts  to  convene  a constitutional  convention  to  unshackle  us  from  the  long  outmoded  and  ignored  covenants  failed  because  a few persons of faint heart but staunch purpose desired time to procrastinate. Our actions must be considered and deliberated. But, we can no longer afford to cloak delay in the guise of deliberation. We  must  act  with  courage  and  determination  if  Vermont  is  to  realize  its  unlimited  potential  as  a showcase for social and political advance. Constitutional  reform  is  needed  now.  It  is  proposed  again  as  a  prelude  to  the  reorganization  of  state government I will recommend at a special session in 1968. This  is  not  a  recommendation  of  change  for  the mere  sake  of  change. Neither  is  it  a  threat  to  our  basic institutions. It  is  a  proposal  to  revamp  and  reshape  our  public  resources  and  instruments  of  government  so  that  they may  be  focused  more  directly  on  the  problems  of  our  people.  Government  must  function  efficiently  as  an administrative instrument if it is to be effective as an agency for social reform. We have demonstrated in many areas—particularly in the realm of natural resources—that the traditional organization  of  state  executive  agencies  is  inadequate.  It  does  not  permit  us  to  deal  effectively  and efficiently  with  the  challenge  of  protecting  our  physical  environment  and  enhancing  its  usefulness  to  our citizens. The  same  is  true  in  the  areas  of  our  human  resources.  We  are  concerned  with  total  man  and  his  total environment. The articulation of this problem was the concern of the early 1960’s. Its solution is the challenge we now face. Our opportunity diminishes with each day of delay. The  forward  thrust  of  this  program  for  Vermont  and  its  people  has  three  times  been  endorsed  by  the electorate. It is our duty to keep faith with the people and to build upon the advances of the past several years. The  details  of  this  program  will  be  debated  as  they  should  be.  Alternatives  may  be  proposed.  But,  no man or group of men can ignore the necessity for action and action now. Nor can we permit petty partisanship to stand between Vermont and its destiny. Dramatic evidence of our determination to accept responsibilities would be given by prompt approval of the proposed reforms of our social welfare program. This  proposal  already  has  been  approved  by  the  Legislative  Council.  I  see  it  as  more  than  merely increasing  public  services  and  streamlining  the  administration  of  public  programs.  I  see  it  also  as  a  symbol of  Vermont’s  determination  to  cast  off  the  mantle  of  provincialism  and  of  our  willingness  to  shape  our institutions for effective action.  Just  as we  act  to meet  immediate human needs  in  the areas of health and welfare, we must build  for  the future. Education  remains  the  keystone  of  our  long  term  advance  as  a  state.  No  area  of  public  endeavor  is  of greater importance in our efforts to provide for a quality environment and for personal excellence. We have made great strides in improving Vermont’s educational system. These programs of material aid to  education  must  be  continued  and  expanded.  I  will  therefore  recommend  significant  increases  in  state financing for our schools and colleges. This  is  not  enough,  however.  We  must  further  strengthen  our  programs  to  enrich  the  quality  of education. Re-districting  is  underway  and  requires  continued  effort.  The  State  Department  of  Education  is  being strengthened and improved. Here again, emphasis must be placed on the human equation, on innovation and increased assistance to the personnel guiding the intellectual development of our young people. At  the  same  time we  strengthen  our  internal  educational  programs, we  should  act  to  buttress  the  state’s position  in  relation  to  the  federal government.  I can  think of no more effective way of protecting  the  state’s control over educational priorities than full legislative participation in the Education Compact. Such  action  would  again  demonstrate  our  willingness  to  utilize  all  available  resources  to  meet  our responsibilities to our young citizens. I would  like  to depart  from my prepared  text here  to say  that no one believes  in  the  federal system more than I do. But here again I think the key word is state responsibility. Unless we demonstrate the capacity and the willingness to meet our problems, the drift to federal controls will continue. This  same  theme  of  conserving  our  resources  and  providing  for  their maximum  benefit  to  our  people  is reflected in our continued effort to protect and enhance Vermont’s great wealth of natural resources. Legislation  will  be  introduced  to  implement  recommendations  that  reflect  two  years  of  study  and planning  in  this  area.  Corridors  of  scenic  beauty  along  our  highways  and  also  along  our  streams  demand public  protection.  Land  use  must  be  controlled  if  we  are  to  prove  our  true  concern  for  the  beauties  of Vermont. Natural areas, parks, stream improvement and pollution control and other elements of a greatly expanded public recreation program require legislative attention and increased state support. These  activities  promoting  orderly  development  of  our  natural  resources  and  recreational  potential  are but one aspect of our complex economy. Our  record  breaking  economic  development  demands  continued  attention  to  promotion  of  a  strong industrial base for a healthy balance. This can be encouraged through additional liberalization of loan guarantees under the Vermont Industrial Building Authority and through a program of industrial parks. Additional  aids  to manufacturing  and  industry would be  futile without  concurrent  action  to  increase our minimum wage schedule and to expand and bolster allied compensation and unemployment programs. We  need,  too,  to  strengthen  the  public’s  role  in  the  maintenance  of  industrial  peace  through  a  labor relations act. Vermont  cannot  afford  to  penalize  persons  for  living  and working  in  the  state. We  are  at  a  stage  in  our economic development where we have to compete for skilled labor just as we compete for new employment opportunities.  This  fact  is  above  and  beyond  the moral  question  of  assuring  all  citizens  adequate  return  for his or her skills and talents without discrimination on the job or in regard to housing. The  state  must  meet  its  own  responsibility  to  its  employees  through  a  new  classification  plan  and significant salary increases to its own personnel at the same time it acts to protect those in the private sector. These  programs  to  enhance  living  and working  conditions  in  our  state  can  be  augmented  and  expedited through expanded and more efficient services to local communities. But  here  again,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  our  ultimate  objective  of  extending  these  services  to  our citizens through agencies that command the resources necessary to do the job well. Certainly,  all  the  citizens of  the  state will  share  the benefits of  increased  aid  to  regional planning  and  to regional development programs, with those living in the participating towns and cities. Our own experience has demonstrated the value of this regional approach just as we know the benefits to be derived from district courts with full-time judges. This court re-organization should be fully implemented and the same principle should be applied to our present system of state’s attorneys. Again,  the  theme  is  action  now  to  assure  that  Vermont  meets  its  responsibilities  to  its  citizens  so  that they in turn can more fully realize their individual potential for a creative and constructive life. Ours  is  the opportunity  to build our  community  to unique  specifications before we  face  the necessity of having to tear down vast areas of urban blight and decay. Ours is the opportunity to protect our wealth of rivers, mountains, forests and lakes rather than having to restore or replace them because of uncontrolled exploitation. Ours is the opportunity for controlled growth and planned development. Recognition  of  this  opportunity,  however,  is  not  enough.  We  must  meet  our  responsibility  for constructive action. This,  then,  is  the broad sweep of  the  task we  face  together. The  lines of attack are more fully detailed  in legislation  proposed  for  your  approval  and  in  special  messages  I  plan  to  present  to  you  from  time  to  time. Tax  reform,  use  of  the  general  fund  operating  surplus,  are  among  the  topics  I  plan  to  treat  in  detail  in  this manner. I  am  convinced  that  with  divine  guidance  and  by  working  together  in  our  concern  for  the  future  of Vermont,  we  can  and  we  will  demonstrate  the  courage  and  the  wisdom  to  utilize  our  resources  and  our talents to enrich and elevate the lives of our citizens. I am confident that together we will weave the vision of our people into the fabric of our community life. With  imagination  and  initiative,  I  am  certain  we  can  raise  the  quality  of  the  lives  of  our  citizens  so  that Vermont is the hallmark of progress for New England and the total U.S.