Inaugural address of  Richard A. Snelling  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1991   Thursday, January 10, 1991. Inaugural Address  I would like to make a few personal observations before I begin my formal remarks: My prayers, all Vermont’s prayers, are with our Sons and daughters who are  this day  in, or on  their way,  to the  Middle  East.  In  the  days  and  months  ahead  Vermont  will  often  be  faced  with  serious  problems,  but  with perspective we  know  how much more  important  it  is  that  all  of  this world  find  a way  to  reject  both  aggression and war. There is no higher goal or deeper wish than peace as the basis of a new world order. And I extend my congratulations and best wishes to Governor Kunin. Her agenda was full, her contributions are many,  and  her  service will  long  be  remembered.  I wish  her  a  continuing  life  of  leadership,  fulfillment  and satisfaction. And  finally,  may  I  tell  you  how  much  I  love  this  Chamber  and  all  it  stands  for.    I  will  never  forget  my impressions  at  the  moment  when  I  first  took  my  place  here  as  the  Member  from  Shelburne,  more  than  thirty (30)  years  ago  .  .  .  of  the  beauty  and  the  grace  of  this  Hall.  Nor,  by  the  way  will  I  forget  what  I  learned  here, from many  of  you.  In my  six  (6)  sessions  of  service,  or  the  friendships made  in  those  years.  I  am  happy  to  be back with you again. Mr.  President,  Mr.  Speaker,  Mr.  President  pro  tempore,  Mr.  Chief  Justice,  distinguished  members  of Vermont’s Legislative bodies, public servants, family and friends: Even  as  I  return  here  for  my  fifth  time,  I  wonder  if  it  is  possible  for  anyone  to  stand  on  this  spot,  on  this occasion,  and  not  find  their  heart  pounding  as  they  think  of  those  others  who  have  gone  before,  and  of  the mighty contributions of those historic figures. Precisely  two  hundred  (200)  years  ago  today  the  Vermont  Assembly  in  Bennington  voted  to  ratify  the Constitution  of  the  United  States  in  order  to  be  included  as  the  fourteenth  (14th)  state  of  the  United  States  of America. This is a very special year for us, our Bicentennial, a year of anniversaries and of remembrances. Thomas Chittenden made clear his exhilaration  in anticipation of  returning  to office  to  lead Vermont as  the fourteenth  (14th)  State  when  he  told  the  Assembly  “The  Constitution,  gentlemen,  groped  in  the  dark  for  days, months  and  years,  but  now  it  shines  with  pure  lustre.  By  it  our  lives,  properties,  liberties  and  privileges,  civil and  religious, are protected.   By  it we  retain a  right to choose our own  rulers and  that  from among ourselves; − by  it  we  are  rescued  from  submitting  to  the  edicts  of  any  foreign  power,  or  neighboring  government,  while every civil officer is annually taught his dependence.” But even Thomas Chittenden had self-doubts about his  readiness for  the  task of serving as Governor. As he stepped forward to accept his role in 1790 he said “It is with some reluctance that I shall enter again into public service,  all  circumstances  considered;  yet  the  good  of  this  people  lies  so  near  my  heart,  that  when  duty  calls, nothing  shall deter me  from  acting  that part  I  judge will  contribute most  to  the peace, happiness  and prosperity of the people. Therefore with a firm reliance on receiving that kind aid and support from the Council and House of Representatives  that  the  nature  of my  office  requires,  I  shall  accept  the  office  to which  I  am  elected −  and  I pray God to grant me wisdom to conduct agreeable to His will and then I trust it will be for the best good of His and my people.” I  confess  that,  like Thomas Chittenden,  all  circumstances  considered,  it  is with  some  reluctance  that  I  enter public service again today. But with Chittenden and with all of you, I share the determination that nothing shall deter any of us  from acting  the part we  judge will contribute most  to  the peace, happiness and prosperity of  the people. As our predecessors have succeeded together, so shall we.  1991 will be both an anniversary and a beginning. It  is the end of our first  two hundred (200) years but  it  is even more significantly  the first year of Vermont’s next  two hundred (200) years. Governor Chittenden and  the legislators  to  whom  he  spoke  wanted  those  precious  legacies  of  peace,  happiness  and  prosperity  for  all  of  us down through endless generations, and that was their vision. Their vision is now the basis for our quality of life. It  is  our  turn  to  dream  our  dreams  and  describe  our  visions,  because  they will  determine  the  quality  of  life  and the legacy we leave for our descendants. Vermonters  have  always  been  generous.  Those  who  do  not  know  or  understand  Vermonters  sometimes believe  that  frugality  and  generosity  are  opposites.  The  true  Vermonters  are  both.    To  make  a  living  in  these hills  one  learned  to  use  wisely  each  asset  …  “waste  not,  want  not”  was  a  motto  to  live  by.  We  have  always reckoned with limits and so we understand them. But  the  spirit  of  generosity  springs  from  the  same  well.  We  were  a  rural  people.  Those  who  cleared  and tamed a wilderness, those who lived apart, in tiny hillside clearings and small villages weeks away from distant cities,  came  to  prize  most  the  helpful  and  caring  neighbor.  Neither  decades  nor  technology  dim  this understanding  of  how  important  the welfare  of  others  is  to  each  of  us. A  combination  of  frugality  and  concern for others must continue to guide us as we cope with the problems of the present and lay visionary plans for the future. A  reading  of  our  history will  bring  us  face-to-face with  the  reality  that  over  and  over  again we  have  found the  limits  of  the  application  of  public  resources  to material  social  goals  and  have  been  forced,  with  reluctance and pain, to recognize that the ultimate humanity we seek is not the task of government alone, but is the goal of a society in which both public and private efforts must go hand in hand. My  oath  has  been  sworn,  and  I  must  begin  discharging  my  obligations  now  by  telling  you  frankly  and clearly  that  Vermont  faces  an  immediate  and  urgent  need  to  limit  its  public  spending  to  a  rate  which  can  be supported by reasonable levels of taxation even in years of average economic activity.  About  a  week  from  now,  I  will  ask  to  speak  to  you  in  great  detail  about  this  problem  and  to  spell  out  a comprehensive approach to its solution. But the importance of the matter requires that it occupy far more of this occasion than I would like and I must make clear at least the fundamental nature of the problem. Our  state  General  Fund  budget  is  being  driven  by  a  very  small  number  of  very  expensive  programs,  all  of which  are  escalating  in  cost  remarkably  faster  than  either  the  United  States  or  the  Vermont  economy  can  be expected  to  support  on  a  dependable  and  sustainable  basis.    Just  seven  (7)  programs  -  Welfare,  State  Aid  to Education  (including  retirement  funds  and  aid  to  higher  education),  Property  Tax  Relief,  Use  Tax reimbursements, Corrections, Medicaid and Debt Service are together responsible for about 490 million dollars. This  is  nearly  80%  of  the  approximately  630  million  dollar  estimated  spending  for  1991.  To  those  who wonder where the money is going, let it be clear that it is not going to hundreds of hidden items. It is not dust in the corners of the bureaucracy. It is mountains in the center of the public policy stage. Each of these expenditures, while technically not all “entitlements,” has the built-in capacity to grow in cost without  any  relationship  to  the  growth  of  the  state’s  revenue. Each  and  every  one  of  these  cost  items  has  been growing enormously faster than the economy of the state. The  consequences  are  clear.  Only  when  the  economy  is  extraordinarily  and  unsustainably  robust  are  the revenues  from  any  reasonable  or  nationally-competitive  tax  system  able  to  match  expenditures.  The  recent years,  through  fiscal  year  1990, were  unusually  strong  years.  For  a  few wonderful  years Vermont  experienced average annual  real growth of nearly  five percent  (5%), more  than double  the  long  term average of  two percent (2%). When the economy is only average in vitality, budgets of the level we have reached will produce deficits or require punitive  tax  levels.  In  just  a  few years our overall  tax burden has gone  from 24th  in  the nation  to about 12th highest.  On  the  basis  of  my  own  studies  to  date,  I  agree  essentially  with  the  calculations  of  Secretary Menson  that just  to  maintain  current  programs  at  current  service  levels  in  Fiscal  1992,  and  meet  some  unavoidable  but unusual  debt  service  obligations  of  the  coming  fiscal  year,  will  require  733  million  dollars.    But  despite  last years  tax  increases,  the  revenue  expected  in  fiscal  1992  is  expected  to  produce  only  about  582 million  dollars. The  gap  is  151  million  dollars.  Even  allowing  considerable  room  for  argument  about  either  what  is  or  is  not required  to  maintain  current  programs,  and  room  for  disagreement  about  revenue  projections;  we  must recognize that the fundamental problem begs for immediate acknowledgment, and the earliest possible attention from this body. The  task  is  formidable. Those  in  this Hall  cannot  accomplish  this  task  alone. Only  an  understanding  of  the situation by  the entire State can bring about adjustments of  this magnitude. We Vermonters will need  to call on our roots and our spirit to make these major changes. And while we must solve this fiscal problem, it cannot occupy all of our attention this biennium. We cannot turn away from the countless opportunities to make life better in Vermont, in those ways that we can afford. We must look with optimism and enthusiasm to a future that is still ours to create. The task of this session is not only to get our budget in order. It is to do that and find the ways we can meet our  goals.  Having  to  trim  budgets  is  not  a  tragedy  unless  it  is  used  as  an  excuse  for  turning  away  from responsibility. We  cannot  and  will  not  set  lower  standards  for  the  education  of  our  children,  for  the  health  of  the population,  for  assistance  to  the  troubled,  jobless  or  homeless,  or  for  protection  of  the  environment.  But  we clearly must rethink how those goals are to be achieved.   Today there is not sufficient time to spell out a complete legislative agenda and I will not attempt to do so. I will  speak  at  a  later  date  about  a  number  of  concerns  in  the  area  of  law  enforcement,  but  I  largely  endorse recommendations  already  made  in  this  area  by  the  Attorney  General.  My  recommendations  regarding transportation  matters  will  be  included  with  the  budget  message.  The  legislation  I  will  propose  does  not  offer anything  like  a  set  of  miracle  cures  for  our  problems.  While  the  need  for  change  may  be  made  clear  by  the obvious  failure of  the old system  to meet our expectations,  the new procedures cannot be produced  in a year or a biennium. Changes of this magnitude result from a deliberate process involving literally thousands of people. The new systems  are  negotiated  among  those  most  knowledgeable  about  the  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  the  systems that have proved to be inadequate. I  will  offer  an  approach  and  a  beginning,  based  on  the  assumption  that  what  is  not  working  at  levels  of funding we can afford must be redesigned, and that it is time to make a beginning. With  this  objective,  I  am  committed  to  breaking  down  the  state  regulatory  mandates  and  barriers  to  local interest and responsibility and just as committed to attacking the federal regulatory tangle which blocks so many of Vermont’s  efforts. At  both  the  federal  and  state  level  the  bargain must  be  to  trade  regulations  and mandates for performance commitments. HUMAN SERVICES I will propose  that we begin a comprehensive process of redesign of services and benefits provided  through our  Agency  of  Human  Services  which  will  thoughtfully  address  the  resources  available  to  those  in  need. Secretary Hogan has already begun this process. The  integrity  of  programs  serving  the most  vulnerable  and  dependent  citizens  will  be maintained  although limited  resources  by  necessity  require  the  setting  of  priorities. Wherever  we  can,  we  will  seek  to  alleviate  the root  cause  of  need  by  better  integration  of welfare,  child  care,  and  community mental  health,  health,  substance abuse  programs  and  education  aimed  to  improve  options  and  opportunities  for  the  Agency’s  clients.  Our  goal will  be  always  to  treat  individuals  as  whole  persons  not  segmented  or  targeted  only  by  their  immediate problems. Our goal will also be  to  support and  reinforce  the  family unit as  the best  long-term  solution  to many problems This  process  of  change  will  involve  program  administrators,  advocates,  consumers  and  the  general  public and  be  responsive  to  legislative mandate. The  end  result will  be  a  system which will  be  financially  sustainable in good times and bad. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Social needs fall and tax revenues rise when the economic engine gets stronger, and vice versa. The world is just  beginning  the  most  intense  period  of  international  economic  competition  in  history.  In  such  a  world  the standard of  living  in  the United States and  in Vermont will be determined by our capacity  to produce  the goods and services needed in a peaceful and environmentally-sound world. We  must  begin  by  a  determination  to  nurture  and  sustain  what  we  have  —  the  existing  manufacturing, recreation  and  travel,  agricultural  and  service  employers.  We  need  to  build  on  our  existing  educational  and medical service organizations. We must create the reality and recognition that Vermont is a good place to work, to invest in good jobs, and to do business. I intend to protect, defend and build upon Vermont programs to protect the environment.  But we will put an end  to  any  notion  that Vermont  does  not want  business  or  jobs  or  that  reasonable  permit  requirements must  be hostile to reasonable business interests. I  will  take  a  personal  role  in  stimulating  public-private  partnerships  to  help  strengthen  the  economy  and make  clear  that Vermont  is  as  it  always  has  been,  a State which  understands  and  appreciates  entrepreneurship, and will work with  both  state  and  regional  development  groups  and  private  business  interests  in  expanding  the effectiveness of international marketing of Vermont and Vermont products, particularly in Canada. EDUCATION We  must  strengthen  Vermont’s  educational  system.  This  is  the  best  example  of  where  we  can  make  a difference which  is not  in proportion  to public expenditures but  is much more  likely  to  respond  to broad public commitment! Let the Bicentennial year be the year of education in Vermont. First, let us each agree, regardless of our age or  prior  education  or  employment  circumstances,  to  reach  out  for  at  least  one  significant  personal  educational advancement this year: a course or a set of books on a subject important to us, or our family or our careers, and let  us  make  this  a  year  in  which  each  of  us  reaches  out  to  help  others  learn  the  joy  and  rewards,  of  reading.  Literacy for all Vermonters must be our goal  if we are  to  improve  the quality of  life. I will ask  leaders of every part  of  the  Vermont  educational  system,  the  Library  system,  and  related  private  endeavors  to  help  me  put together a program to help achieve our goal. Secondly, let this be the year we make it clear that teachers and schools are only part of the process, and that parents must be at  the heart of  the educational partnership. No change  in educational funding could accomplish what would result if all Vermont parents asked and expected more from their children. Commissioner Mills and the Department have made great strides in these last several years. I am committed to helping to keep that progress going. I applaud the statement of education goals developed by the State Board and  encourage  Vermonters  to  participate  in  further  definition  of  those  goals  and  the  strategies  for  their implementation.  THE ENVIRONMENT I  am  committed  to  keeping  Vermont  a  national  leader  in  the  scope,  wisdom  and  effectiveness  of  its programs to protect the environment.  I  recognize  that  to  preserve  and  protect  the  environment,  planning  must  be  one  of  the  highest  goals  of Vermonters  and  it must  be  the  citizens who  create  the  plans. Let Vermont’s  planning  process  be  a  blending  of certain  central  and  unifying  principles  with  local  and  regional  ideas  which  express  the  rich  diversity  of  our communities. I recognize and support  the goals and aspirations of Act 200. However, I will ask  the Legislature  to remove any  link  between  regional  commission  approval  of municipal  plans  and  state  funding  for  planning  at  the  local level.  Instead  I  will  encourage  regional  commissions  to  act  as  resource  and  service  providers  for  local communities  and  to  assist  in  developing  the  cooperative  processes  to  reconcile  material  differences  between local plans. The Public Trust doctrine provides  that  each State holds  its public waters  and  the  land underneath  them  for the benefit of the public.  I have requested that Secretary Eastman review the work in progress on this matter in the  Agency  of  Natural  Resources  and,  as  necessary,  other  studies,  in  order  to  prepare  recommendations  to  the Legislature with respect to the precise nature of an effective doctrine for Vermont which recognizes both public and private interests. During the last twenty (20) years Vermont has adopted, with the best of intentions, a multiplicity of statutes, regulations  and  funding  programs  with  the  objective  of  protecting  the  natural  environment  and  encouraging better  land  use. We  have  now  had  sufficient  experience  with  many  of  these  regulations  and  statutes  to  design systems of  administration which  are  clearer, more  coherent, better  focused  and  able  to  achieve  a  greater  public benefit with reduced resources. ************************** These  initiatives  along  with  those  that  I  will  include  in  the  budget  message  will  form  the  thrust  of  my recommendations  to  the  Legislature.  Our  broad  goal  for  Vermonters  will  echo  that  of  Governor  Chittenden peace, prosperity and happiness while preserving the beauty and grandeur of our State. Our  challenge  will  be  to  find  new  ways  as  a  government  to  help  each  and  every  Vermonter  achieve  those aspirations that can only be met through the combined efforts of the individual, the public and the private sector. Vermont  is  a  small  state  that  has  always  had  a  strong  sense  of  community  and  a  shared  identity which we must strive to cherish and renew. With this legacy from prior generations we can forge creative ways within our means  to  meet  our  responsibilities  as  a  state  that  reaches  beyond  the  confining  strictures  of  the  past,  and  that truly reflect our compassion for  those  in need while enhancing  independence and opportunity for  those  that can do  for  themselves. What  I am proposing will not be easy nor  immediate.  It will mean a commitment  from each of us  to  look beyond  the present and our personal, material striving. A shared vision of how  to shape our future will  take hard work and  imagination built on  sound knowledge.  It will  involve us all  in countless meetings and discussions.  But  this  biennium  must  mark  the  beginning  of  a  change  in  Vermont’s  methods  of  reaching  for  a quality and social justice. I. will do everything in my power to assist you in this process. God Bless You All. Benediction The Benediction was pronounced by the Most Reverend John A. Marshall, Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Burlington. Dissolution The Governor, having completed his inaugural message, was escorted to the Executive Chamber by the Committee. The Supreme Court was escorted from the Hall by the Sergeant-at-Arms. The Joint Assembly then dissolved. ROBERT H. GIBSON.  Secretary of the Senate, Clerk.