Inaugural address of  Robert T. Stafford  As it appears in the  Journal  of the  JOINT ASSEMBLY  BIENNIAL SESSION  1959 Thursday, January 15, 1959 Inaugural Address Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the General Assembly, The Supreme Court, Ladies and Gentlemen: First,  let me  thank  the  President  for  his most  gracious words. When  I  got  up  here,  I  said  to  him  that  I was most thankful that the firm of Babcock and Stafford was still in business. The  opening  events  of  this  Session  are  unprecedented,  in  the  recent  history  of  our  State,  yet  they  are most gratifying.  They  have  demonstrated  clearly  that  Vermonters  have  not  lost  their  talent  to  deal  speedily  and effectively with a complex, unique situation. Your  Canvassing  Committee,  under  bi-partisan  leadership,  has  done  a  truly  remarkable  job  of  ballot counting  with  complete  fairness.  It  has  done  the  work  much  faster  than  even  the  most  optimistic  believed possible. It has set the tone for a short, hard and productive Session of the General Assembly. Naturally  I  am  elated  at  the  outcome  not  only  from  a  personal  standpoint,  but more  particularly  because  it has completely vindicated the faith most of us have always had in the integrity of Vermont election officials. We may  have  some  rather  unique  ideas  about  ballot  storage  here  and  there, which  can  be  easily  corrected, but our elections are fundamentally honest and reliable. We can rejoice that this fact has been proved to our own satisfaction before the eyes of the nation. There  is  no  honor  I  would  exchange  for  the  opportunity  to  work  with  you  on  behalf  of  the  people  of Vermont. We are faced with difficult and challenging problems. Following the example of the Canvassing Committee, let us get the job done promptly. Let us operate on a full work week at once. If we do, this session can be materially shorter than those of the recent past. You  will  have  the  fullest  cooperation  of  the  Executive  Department  to  expedite  your  consideration  of legislative work.  I  propose,  in  fact, with  your  consent,  to  deliver  the  Executive Budget Message  to  you  during your next legislative day, so that your biggest task will be ready for your immediate consideration. As Governor, I plan while you are in session, to decline all social and ceremonial engagements which might interfere  with  my  first  duty,  as  I  conceive  it,  and  that  is  to  be  available  at  my  office  in  connection  with  the operation  of  our  State  Government,  and  your  deliberations.  I  trust  Vermonters  will  understand  and  will  prefer things to be this way. The  problems  you  face  as  legislators  are  enormous  in  comparison  with  those  of  your  more  recent predecessors.  Our  State  has  unquestionably  reached  a  crucial  economic  point  where  clear  thinking,  sound judgment and prompt action are necessary.  There  can be but one ultimate  aim  for  all of us.  It  is  to  take  the necessary  action  today  to make Vermont  a better place in which to live in every spiritual, social and economic sense for ourselves and our children. The  budget  for  the  next  biennium  will  present  your  thorniest  problem.  It  will  require  you,  as  it  has  me,  to guess ahead concerning probable revenues for two and one-half years − a difficult task in the rapidly fluctuating conditions of this jet-propelled age. You will do well  to keep  these  facts  in mind  as you  consider  the  amount  of money  you will  authorize  your State Government to spend in the next biennium. First,  Vermont’s  population  has  remained  nearly  constant  in  recent  years.  Increased  spending  on  your  part will mean higher taxes from present citizens. Secondly,  experts  tell  us  that  all  taxes  together—federal,  state  and  local,  now  take  about  24%  of  our citizens’  income—a  level  of  taxation  approaching  the  point  where  taxes  can  become  a  stagnating  influence upon the economy of the State. Thirdly, your State Government is vastly larger and more expensive to operate than it was even eleven years ago. It has grown from 1537 full-time employees and total expenditure from all sources of $27,500,000 in 1947 to  3321  employees  and  total  expenditures  of  $75,000  000  in  1958.  Per  capita  incomes  have  risen  in  Vermont during this period, but nowhere near as fast proportionately as has the cost of your State Government. Fourthly,  we  are  just  emerging  from  a  period  of  recession  and  unemployment  which  has  slowed  the development of the State’s economy over the past year. These  factors may well  influence you,  as  they did me,  to come  to  the  conclusion  that  this  is not  the  time  to heap large new taxes upon our people. I  repeat  that  one  of  the main  concerns  of  this  administration will  be  the  economic welfare  of  the  people  of Vermont.  Unless  our  citizens  are  economically  sound  and  have  enough money  to  purchase  the material  goods necessary  to  their  own  existence,  they  cannot,  they  should  not,  be  asked  to  support  costly  additional  state services  no matter  how  desirable  such  services may  be.  Let me  also  emphasize  that  an  expanding  economy  in our State can in future years provide the necessary revenues from present taxes to pay for many additional state services. The budget I shall present to you will not require major new taxes. I urge its adoption. The program this administration proposes has three main objectives: 1. To stabilize the cost of governmental operation as the level of the last biennium as possible. 2.  To  make  capital  investments  in  projects  best  calculated  to  develop  the  economy  of  the  State and thus provide new jobs and higher incomes. 3.  To  adopt  such  recommendations  of  the  so-called  “Little  Hoover”  Commission  as  will  most likely make our State Government more economical and efficient. May  I now  turn  to  a brief discussion of portions of  the administration program which are not  to be covered in the budget message. SOCIAL WELFARE You  have  an  opportunity  to  do  an  immediate  and  outstanding  service  for  the  people  of  Vermont  in  the Social  Welfare  field.  The  new  proposals  in  respect  to  liberalized  policies  and  increased  payments  in  the programs  of  Old  Age  Assistance,  Aid  to  the  Blind,  Aid  to  the  Permanently  and  Totally  Disabled,  and  Aid  to Dependent  Children,  are  the  most  far-reaching  and  liberal  since  these  programs  were  inaugurated  many  years ago. The Department of Social Welfare has  completed  a  review  and  adjustment of  its  entire  caseload  and  is  in  a position,  with  our  prompt  cooperation,  to  make  higher  payments  on  February  1st  of  this  year.  The Commissioner  of  Social Welfare  informs  me  that  there  are  sufficient  unencumbered  funds  available  to  permit an  increase  in  the  three  adult  programs  to  maximum  of  $75  a  month.  Legislation  is  ready  for  your  immediate attention to this matter. I urge its prompt adoption so that the new benefit rates can be made this February 1st. A method  of  utilizing  other  available  funds  to  finance  a  program  of  nursing  home  care  and  hospitalization service  for  eligible  recipients  of Old Age Assistance, Aid  to  the Blind  and Aid  to  the  Permanently  and Totally Disabled, has also been proposed and appears to offer considerable financial relief to the towns and cities of the State. It will insure better care and protection for those in need of such service. HIGHWAY SAFETY Substantial experience in the field of law enforcement has clearly demonstrated to me that there is no single measure  no  panacea  which  alone  can  cure  our  highway  safety  problem.  Personally  I  believe  that, notwithstanding  the  excellent  reduction  in  number  of  deaths  last  year,  the  continuing  loss  of  life,  loss  of property  and  infliction  of  pain  and  suffering  which  results  from  automobile  accidents  within  our  borders,  in spite of able law enforcement work, is so inexcusable, so unnecessary as to rank as the great tragedy of our time in Vermont. The following measures will improve the situation: 1.    Satisfactory  completion  of  a  driver  education  course  for  all who  first  apply  for  an  operator’s license in Vermont. 2.  A re-examination program for accident-prone drivers. 3.  Adoption of a point suspension system for Vermont drivers. 4. Adoption of so-called “implied consent” law with reference to drunken driving. 5.  Jail for those driving while license is suspended. 6. Uniform traffic laws, so far as practicable, with those of our neighboring states. HIGHER EDUCATION This administration proposes to see that the encouraging increase in the numbers of Vermont youth who are able to continue their education beyond the high school level continues in the next two years. With this purpose in mind we  recommend  that  tuition  at  the University  of Vermont  be maintained  at  $345  for Vermont  residents during the coming biennium. Further will be said on this matter in the budget message. You will also be asked to create a State Scholarship Board composed of three educators and two senators to be appointed by  the Governor with  the consent of  the Senate. One of  the Board’s principal  functions will be  to award  the  300  scholarships  now  handled  by  our State Senators. This  proposal  is  not made  out  of  a  feeling  that the Senators have handled  the scholarships badly but  in  the belief  that  the Board could do  the matter better and at  the  same  time  administer  a  $50,000  revolving  fund  for  scholarship  loans  to  outstanding  and  needy Vermont students who could not obtain a  college  education. You will be  requested  to authorize  the Emergency Board  to make such funds available at an appropriate time during the biennium. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION The  highly  successful  program  of  state  aid  in  the  construction  of  new  schools  should  be  continued  during the  coming  biennium. The  details  of  the  administration  proposals  in  regard  thereto  are  contained  in  the Budget Message. It  is  also  recommended  that  you  provide  our  public  school  teachers  with  an  opportunity  by  referendum  on their  part,  to  join  their  retirement  system  with  Federal  Social  Security  upon  the  same  alternatives  that  were available to the members of the State Employee’s Retirement System. AGRICULTURE The  administration  will  make  every  possible  effort  to  utilize  effectively  the  resources  of  the  State Government  to  assist  our  farmers  to  expand  present  and  find  new  markets  for  the  produce  of  Vermont  farms. The drive  to  completely  eradicate brucellosis  from our dairy herds will be  continued.  I  am personally prepared to take an active part in efforts to establish a plant of one of the large meat processing concerns in our state. LABOR The recession of the past year, with its attendant unemployment problem, has highlighted the necessity for a general  overhaul  of  our  laws  affecting  unemployment  compensation.  Bills  are  already  in  the  legislative draftsmen’s  office  which  can  serve  as  a  basis  for  your  consideration  of  this  problem.  I  suggest  that  you consider: First,  increasing  the  maximum  benefit  amount  payable  to  a  figure  approaching  one-half  of  the  average weekly wage of covered employees or a figure which would currently be about $36; in Vermont;  Secondly,  making  provision  for  an  allowance  to  dependents  of  $2  per  dependent  up  to  five  of  a  covered employee whose spouse is not working; Thirdly,  establishing  an  emergency  fund  for  payments  beyond  26  weeks  duration  when  seven  per  cent  or more of the labor force is unemployed for a period of four consecutive weeks—to continue until less than seven per  cent  of  the  labor  force  is  unemployed  for  four  consecutive  weeks;  such  plan  to  provide  for  13  additional weeks of payments. Fourthly,  that  you  permit  a  covered  employee  to  earn  up  to  $10  a  week  from  other  sources  before  being disqualified from eligible for benefits; and Fifthly,  that  the  protection  of  unemployment  insurance  be  extended  to  those  employees  working  for employers of one or more. The  extension  of  this  protection  would  exclude—those  employed  by  employers  otherwise  exempt  from coverage, such as agricultural laborers, domestic servants, casual laborers, etc. It  is  also  recommended  that  our  minimum  wage  law  be  raised  to  one  dollar  to  coincide  with  the  present minimum under federal law. HIGHWAYS Modern  highways  are  essential  to  the  development  of  Vermont’s  agricultural,  recreational  and  industrial future. They are equally important to the safety of our traveling public. Realization of this fact has spurred us on to undertake an ambitious highway construction program which is partially completed. Modern  highways  cost  a  great  deal  of money. We  want  to  build  roads  as  fast  as  we  can  afford  the  cost  of their  construction  and  maintenance,  but  it  would  be  courting  financial  disaster  to  go  beyond  this  point.  The financial  problems  inherent  in  future  highway  construction  and  maintenance  will  be  discussed  in  the  Budget Message. Let it suffice here to say that this administration believes we should complete our present construction program  and  re-evaluate  our  needs  and  financial  resources  before  considering  another  large  bond  issue.  With this  in mind  I propose  that we authorize only enough additional highway construction bonds  in  the second year of  the  biennium  to  insure  utilization  of  all  available  federal  funds. About  $3,000,000  in  bonds will  be  required to attain this objective. RECREATION Americans  are  estimated  to be  spending  some  twenty billion dollars a year on  recreational  travel. Naturally we  want  our  share  of  this  growing  economic  bonanza  and  we  can  get  it  in  spite  of  the  sharp  competition  of neighboring  states  if  we  act  with  vigor  and  imagination  to  fully  develop  Vermont’s  outstanding  four-season natural attractions. There  is need  in our State for many more public parks, campsites, bathing beaches and  the  like. We need  to build  them  at  the  right  time  and  in  the  right  places.  In  short,  we  need  a  carefully  and  scientifically  prepared long-range  plan  for  public  parks  expansion.  Specifically  we  should  embark  upon  an  eight-year  program  of public park construction calling  for a  total  investment over  the  full period of  four million dollars. The program can be  financed by bond  issues which  in  turn can be,  to considerable degree at  least,  self  liquidated by  revenue from the facilities they will construct. In the Budget Message you will be asked to authorize the first step in this program whose objective will be to make Vermont the undisputed vacation capitol of eastern America. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT Vermont’s  growth  in  the  years  ahead  will  depend  to  a  considerable  degree  upon  the  acquisition  of  new industries and the expansion of those we now have. Competition  to  secure  the presence of  an  industry  seeking  a new  location  is  severe, yet we  in Vermont  can obtain new industries if we create the right “climate” and take the necessary steps. One  step  which  has  proven  to  be  a  successful  means  of  bringing  an  industry  to  a  community  is  to  have  a modern  manufacturing  plant  ready  for  immediate  occupancy.  There  are  all  too  few  such  plants  available  in Vermont. We need many more to serve as the basis for a state-wide industrial solicitation program. Such  plants  are  frequently  put  up  by  local  non-profit  development  corporations  but  they  are  expensive  and often  the  local  development  corporations  require  help  in  the  form  of  some  guarantee  of  their  financial obligations in order to raise the necessary money. Many  states,  including  some of our neighbors, assist  local development organizations by guaranteeing  their bonds  through  the  agency  of  a  State  Industrial  Building  Commission.  We  do  not  have  such  an  agency  in Vermont  as  yet,  but  one  is  required  if we  are  to  keep  up with  the  rest  of  the  country  in  the  acquisition  of  new manufacturing concerns. A  State  Industrial  Building  Commission  is  recommended.  Its  principal  function  would  be  to  guarantee  the financial  obligations  of  approved  local  development  corporations  and’  to  make  such  obligations  when guaranteed legal investments for all purposes. Such  an  agency  would  cost  nothing,  yet  it  might  well  be  the  catalyst  which  could  bring  about  significant plant construction and expansion in our State. This would mean, in turn, more jobs, more people, more pay and a broader tax base. CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS Vermont’s  Constitution  can  be  amended  but  once  every  ten  years.  The  next  opportunity  will  be  in  1981.  I propose  we  prepare  for  that  time  by  creation  of  an  interim  commission  to  make  recommendations  for,  the amendment  of  the  Constitution  to  the  General  Assembly  of  1961.  It  is  hoped  that  such  a  commission  will consider possible amendments: 1.  To  eliminate  the  ten-year  interval  between  opportunities  to  make  changes  in  the  Constitution  while retaining all of the other safeguards against hasty action such as two successive legislatures and a referendum. 2. To provide for a four-year term for Governor. 3. To authorize annual sessions of the Legislature for a constitutionally limited period of time. 4.  To  change  the  present  requirement  for  counting  votes  for Governor,  Lieutenant Governor  and  Treasurer so that legislation may be authorized providing for prompt recount of challenged state-level elections. So  much  for  the  highlights  of  the  administration  program.  The  proposals  for  Constitutional  amendments lead me directly to some final observations. We live in an age of jets, atoms, satellites and electronics. The pace of  life  has  vastly  accelerated  within  a  decade.  Emergencies,  social  and  economic,  come  and  go  with  amazing rapidity.  They  make  the  task  of  shaping  Vermont’s  destiny  for  two  and  one-half  years  in  the  future  infinitely complex and difficult. The work could better be done by annual sessions. I  am  shortly  to  present  to  you  a  budget. My  advisors  and  I  have worked  hard  to make  it  a  realistic  budget, yet  none  of  us  is  sure what  the  economic  situation will  be  in  the,  second  year  of  the  biennium. We  could  plan more accurately upon annual basis. You  are  about  to  receive  and  consider many proposals  from  the  so-called  little Hoover Commission. These will  require  careful  study  and  under  standing  on  your  part  and  on  the  part  of  the  public  as  well  before  final action is taken upon them. An adjourned session of this General Assembly could not only provide an interval of time to permit general understanding of the Commission Report, but could also afford us an opportunity to deal on a timely basis with one or two other matters which will be discussed in the Budget Message. The  programs  outlined  here  provide  for  a  stable  government,  some  desirable  economics  and  some  capital investments calculated to make Vermont more attractive to visitors and to ourselves. I believe this course at the moment,  rather  than  a  program  of  vastly  increased  expenditures,  is  the  one  of  real  progress. Our  economy will grow if we do not smother it with taxes. I share with you great faith in the future of our State. It can be any thing we want it to be if we are willing to work hard, plan intelligently, and act promptly. Let  us  work  together  to  make  our  State  a  place  in  which  we  can  live  in  comfort  and  dignity—a  place  in which our children will be able to lead an abundant life—a State in which democracy can continue to flourish. I shall look forward to working with you in the months ahead. Thank you.