Inaugural address of  Roswell Farnham  as it appears in the  Journal  of the  Joint Assembly  Biennial Session,  1880  Wednesday, October 7, 1880 Inaugural Address  Senators and Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: In  compliance  with  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  State  we  are  assembled  to  consider  such propositions  and  devise  and  enact  such  laws  as  may  seem  to  us  to  be  most  for  the  well-being  of  our commonwealth.   More  than ordinary  responsibility  rests upon us now,  for  the  reason  that at  this  session we are to consider and act upon the report of the commissioners in relation to the revision of the entire body of the laws of  the  State;  and  you may  be  further  called  upon  to  propose,  on  the  part  of  the  Senate,  and  to  consider,  on  the part of the House of Representatives, amendments to the Constitution of the State. There  is  no  provision  in  our  laws,  nor  is  it  within  the  spirit  of  our  institutions,  that  any  class  of  men,  by virtue  of  social  or  hereditary  position  should  be  our  law  makers,  or  that  any  class  or  family  should  hold  the offices  of  the  State.   Our  law makers  and  rulers  are  elected  from  the mass  of  the  people without  distinction  of occupation,  rank,  or  station  in  life,  by  the  voice  of  the  majority  of  the  voters  of  the  State.    Certainly  with  the people of Vermont,  the  republican  is no  longer an experimental  form of government.   But  it has  this drawback; our  method  necessarily  brings  into  our  legislative  halls  and  into  the  various  offices  of  the  State,  men unaccustomed  to  legislation  and  to  a great  extent  inexperienced  in public  affairs.   The biennial  system  tends  to aggravate  this  evil.    But  I  believe  that  our  law-makers  and  State  officers  assemble  and  act with  so  sincere  and honest an endeavor for the welfare of the State, and labor so earnestly for its good, that these qualities more than supply all that is wanting from lack of experience.   And I trust that we are actuated by the same pure patriotism that has stirred the hearts of Vermonters, whether in their homes or in public assemblies or upon the battle-field in  times  past,  to  give  their  best  labors  or  their  lives  even  for  the  welfare  of  their  beloved  State,  until  the  self-sacrificing devotion of the sons of Vermont has become proverbial throughout our entire land. FINANCES. I  call  your  attention  with  great  satisfaction  to  the  condition  of  the  finances  of  the  State  as  shown  by  the report  of  the  State  Treasurer.    The  full  report  will  be  before  you.    The  following  brief  statement  shows  our financial condition at the close of the fiscal year ending July 31, 1880. ASSETS. Cash on hand and in banks...........................................................................................$213,840.82 Due on State tax of 1879 ....................................................................................................3,857.74 Due form savings banks—taxes.......................................................................................17,375.79 ----------------     $235,074.35 LIABILITIES. Due towns—U.S. surplus fund ......................................................................................$11,519.96 Due on soldiers’ accounts ..................................................................................................9,438.24 Suspense account (outstanding checks) .............................................................................1,743.80 Bonds due in 1876 (owner unknown) ................................................................................4,000.00 Interest due on same prior to maturity ..................................................................................360.00 Due towns on account of savings bank tax ......................................................................23,409.69 Agricultural college fund, due in 1890 ..........................................................................135,500.00 ----------------   $185,971.69 From  this  statement  it  appears  that  the  Treasurer  has  on  hand  and  in  banks,  cash  to  the  amount  of $213,840.82  while  the  entire  indebtedness  of  the  State,  including  what  is  not  due  as  well  as  what  is  due, amounts to but $185,971.69, so that had the Treasurer been called upon July 31, 1880, to pay every dollar of the State’s  indebtedness,  he  could  have  done  so  with  the  cash  on  hand  and  in  banks,  and  still  have  a  balance  of $27,869.13.    If  to  this  sum we  add  the  sum  due  from  the State  tax of 1879,  and  the  taxes due  from  the  savings banks, which  the Treasurer  properly  counts  as  assets, we  have  a  surplus  above  all  indebtedness  of  $49,109.66.  But the agricultural fund is not due until 1890, amounting to $135,500.00, and the United States surplus fund in the hands of the State Treasurer, amounting to $11,519.96, will not be called for at present, if ever.  Adding the two  last  named  sums  to  the  balance  of  assets  above  mentioned,  we  find  in  the  hands  of  the  Treasurer  for  the present fiscal year, beginning August 1, 1880, $196,122.62. At  the close of  the biennial  term of 1878, based upon a calculation similar  to  the above,  the State Treasurer had  on  hand  available  for  the  year  1879,  $141,934.85.    At  the  present  time,  as  shown  by  the  foregoing statement,  he  has  on  hand  available  for  the  current  expenses  of  the  coming  year,  $196,122.62;  showing  a balance of $54,187.77 more on hand  July 31, 1880,  than  at  the corresponding period of  the year 1878.   During the  last  two  years  there  has  been  paid  of  outstanding  State  bonds  $36,000,  which  makes  the  comparative financial condition of the State at the present time over $90,000 better than two years ago. During each year there is a time when the treasury is liable to be drained before the new tax is collected.  To meet  this  contingency  the  Legislature  of  1878,  as  they  had  done  before,  authorized  the  Treasurer  to  borrow  a sum  not  exceeding  $350,000.   During  the  year  ending August  1,  1879,  the Treasurer  borrowed  $45,000,  under the  act  of 1868,  and  $80,000 under  a  similar  act  of  1871.   This  temporary  loan was  paid  during  the  same  year.  During the year ending August 2, 1880, the Treasurer borrowed, under the act of 1876, the sum of $93,000, and paid it within the year; so that none of these temporary loans are outstanding against the State.  The  treasury  is  in  a  most  excellent  condition,  as  already  appears,  and  as  you  will  more  fully  realize  when you examine the Treasurer’s report in detail.  At the beginning of the fiscal year there seemed to be a very large balance available for  immediate use.   That  is  true; but  it must be borne  in mind, as has already been stated,  that before  the  next  tax  comes  in  there  will  be  heavy  drafts  upon  the  treasury,  and  unless  some  provision  is made, more  than  the  surplus  will  be  called  for.    At  the  present  rate  of  interest  in  money  centers,  it  seems  to  me  not advisable for  the  treasury  to carry so  large a surplus any portion of  the year.   Let  the  taxes be enough  to pay all expenses and appropriations, and authorize  the Treasurer  to borrow on short  time  such  sums as he may need  to bridge  over  the  void  in  the  treasury  before  the  taxes  come  in,  and  then  the  people  will  not  be  called  upon  to advance enough to pay the agricultural college debt so long before it is due. One  reason why  the  financial condition of  the State  treasury  is  so much better  than  it was  two years ago  is, that  in determining  the amount of  taxes  to be raised during the past two years, the action of  the Legislature was based  upon  an  overestimate  of  the  probable  expenses  of  the  two  years,  and  a  larger  tax  was  levied  than  was necessary;  but  by  far  the most  satisfactory  reason  to  tax  payers will  appear  from  the  following  statement made by the State Auditor, which shows that our expenses are gradually diminishing: Auditor’s orders for the biennial term ending July 31, 1878 ...................................................  $582,596.21 Auditor’s orders for the biennial term ending July 31, 1880 ...................................................  569,464.67  Making a difference of .............................................................................................................  $13,131.54 in favor of the last biennial term. But during  the  former  term  there was expended upon  the House of Correction $12,144.13, while during  the latter  term  there was expended upon  the  same  institution $43,129.48, giving  a balance of $30,985.35  expended during the last biennial germ more than was expended upon the House of Correction for its erection and to put it in  running order during  the prior  term.    If we  add  this  sum  to  the difference  in Auditors order between  the  two terms as given above ($13,131.54) we have the true comparative saving of $44,116.89. The following figures, furnished by  the Auditor, show some satisfactory changes going on  in some  items of expenses during the past four years. Jail expenses have diminished as follows during that time, viz: Jail expenses for the year ending July 31, 1877.......................................................................  $20,782.42 17,828.70  31, 1878....................................................................... “ “ “ “  14,304.86  31, 1879....................................................................... “ “ “ “   “ “ “ “  31, 1880....................................................................... 8,856.07 A  portion  of  this  change  during  the  last  two  years  may  be  due  to  the  fact  that  some  of  the  prisoners  who formerly were sent to jail, have been during that time sent to the House of Correction.  But this statement cannot apply to the first two years. While jail expenses have gradually diminished, there has at the same time been a very gratifying increase in the  amount  of  fines  and  costs  paid  into  the  treasury,  as  it  appears  by  the  following  statement  made  by  the Auditor: Fines and costs paid in during the year ending July 31, 1877 .................................................  $14,089.23  14,494.50 1878.............................................................................. “ “ “  14,551.36 1879.............................................................................. “ “ “   “ “ “ 1880.............................................................................. 30,455.87 The remarkable increase for the last year named is not due to an increase of crime, but is due to some effect that  the House  of Correction  has  in  prompting  the  payment  of  fines,  and  also  to  some  special  efforts  that  have been made  by  the Auditor  and  other  officers  for  the  collection  of  fines  from  the  hands  of  justices  of  the  peace who had themselves collected them and were withholding the money from the State. While  there  has  been  a  diminution  of  jail  expenses  and  an  increase  in  the  receipts  of  fines  and  costs,  there has also during the same time, been a remarkable falling off in County Clerks’ orders and Court expenses. County Clerks’ orders for the year ending July 31, 1877 ........................................................  $83,826.85 81,995.88 1878.............................................................................. “ “ “  “  “ “ 1879.............................................................................. 70,231.99  “ “ “ 1880.............................................................................. 65,147.98 Here is a favorable change on the side of economy of more than $18,000 in the past four years. Total expense of Courts for the year ending July 31, 1877 .....................................................  $113,237.12  “ “ “ 1878..............................................................................  110,549.77 96,560.27 1879.............................................................................. “ “ “  “  “ “ 1880.............................................................................. 80,005.88 A  gain  for  economy  of more  than  $33,000 within  the  four  years  named.   These  items  of  “Total  expense  of Courts” include the County Clerks’ orders for the same time.  Comparing  the  State  expenses,  as  shown  by  the  Auditor’s  and  County  Clerks’  orders,  we  have  the following figures: State expenses for the last year of the last biennial term to July 31, 1878 ..............................  $315,021.21 Same for the year ending July 31, 1880 ...................................................................................  275,409.61  Showing a change on the side of economy of more than $39,000 between the two years named, as compared with one another.  These statements include all the expenses of the State for the years named, and I believe them to be a fair exposition of the saving made from year to year in State expenses. The act of 1878  in  relation  to Court expenses, and  that establishing  the salaries of certain State officers and the  pay  of  certain  State  employees,  under  the  suggestion  of  my  immediate  predecessor,  are  having  a  salutary effect  upon  the  expenses  of  the  State.    It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  present  Legislature  will  be  as  vigilant  in  this respect as any former one has been.   INSPECTOR OF FINANCE. In  addition  to  the  duties  formerly  imposed  upon  the  Inspector  of  Finance,  the  act  of  1878  requires  him  to report to the General Assembly the condition of the several savings banks and trust companies within the State.  This duty has been very thoroughly performed by that officer, and I commend his report to your consideration. The whole number of depositors in all the savings banks and trust companies in this State, July 1, 1880, was 34,869, an  increase  in number of 2,214 during  the past year, and  there  stood  to  the credit of  such depositors, at that  date,  $9,075,314.39,  in  increase  in  total  amount  of  deposits  during  the  past  year  of  $996,568.58.    Of  this first  named  amount,  $6,347,130.44  belong  to  residents  of  the  State,  the  balance  to  non  residents.    During  the past year interest and dividends amount to $327,908.22. In 1878 the Legislature passed an act taxing deposits in savings banks one-half of one per cent.  This tax has given an income of $50,126.04 for the year and a half that the law had been in force, up to the date of the report.  Of this sum $16,602.32 come from that portion of the tax levied upon non-resident depositors, and remain in the State  Treasury  for  the  use  of  the  State.    The  remainder  has  been  distributed  to  towns  in  proportion  to  the deposits from the several towns—one town receiving two cents as its proportion.  Would it not be better to have the whole tax go into the general fund of the State? I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  several  very  important  changes  proposed  by  the  Inspector  of  Finance,  but have no space or time now.  His very able report makes the necessity of the changes proposed clearer than I can make them appear. TAXES. I  am  satisfied  that  you  will  feel  warranted,  from  the  reports  of  the  Treasurer  and  the  State  Auditor,  in levying a  tax  for  the support of government for  the next  two years, as a considerably  less  rate per cent  than has been  levied for  the past  two years.   The  rate  for 1878 was  thirty per cent, and  for 1879  forty per cent.    It would be idle for me, at this time, to name any sum, but after the various appropriations have been made, the Treasurer or your committee will make some estimate to guide you in this important matter. In view  of  the great  interest  that has been  expressed by  all parties during  the  late political  campaign  in  this State,  in  regard  to  the  finances of  the State, and  the earnest desire  felt by  the whole people,  for  retrenchment  in State  expense,  I  need  not  urge  upon  you  the  necessity  of  the  utmost  vigilance  on  your  part  in  guarding  the treasury  of  the  State.    The  habits  of  extravagance  generated  by  the  false  abundance  of war  times  are  gradually giving place to habits of economy in the household and in private business.  These habits should be cultivated in the public  service,  and officers of  the State  should be held  to  the  same  strict  economy  that  they would  practice in their own affairs.  But while practicing the most rigid economy, we must remember that there are some things of more value than money.   True economy does not consist in refusing to appropriate money when it is needed, but in taking care that its full value be returned for every dollar that is expended. THE REVISION ON THE LAWS. The most  important  topic  to which  I  call  your  attention  is  embraced  in  the  above  title,  as  it  includes  nearly all subjects for consideration by you.  Two years ago the Legislature passed an act of which the following is the first section, viz: “Section  1.    The  Governor  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  appoint  two  commissioners,  whose  duty  it shall  be  to  revise,  redraft,  compile,  consolidate  and  arrange  in methodical  order,  in  plain  and  simple  language, the public statutes of  this State, upon  the basis, plan and general  form of  the General Statutes, with authority  to omit  redundant  enactments,  reject  superfluous  words,  circuitous  and  ambiguous  phraseology,  recommend amendments,  and  condense  the  whole  into  as  concise  and  comprehensive  form  as  is  consistent  with  a  full  and clear expression of  the will of  the Legislature, and  report  the  same  to  the General Assembly at  its next biennial session.” Pursuant  to  this  act,  Governor  Proctor  appointed  Hon.  C.W.  Willard  and  Hon.  W.G.  Veazey  as commissioners  to  revise  the  laws,  and  they  commenced  at  once  upon  their  labors.   Hon. W.G. Veazey,  having been  appointed  a  judge  of  the  Supreme  Court,  a  large  part  of  the  work  of  the  revision  devolved  upon  Mr. Willard.  How faithfully and well he performed his share of the labor, you will learn when the voluminous work is  laid before you.   His  labor  ended only with his  life.   While  still engaged upon  this most  arduous  task, with  a faithfulness  that  attended  all  his  labors,  and  that  has  become  proverbial  throughout  the  State,  this  highly esteemed  public  servant  breathed  out  the  last  remnant  of  a  life  that  had  long  trembled  in  the  balance,  and  that seemed to have been prolonged that he might so nearly complete this last work for the State he loved so well. The  report  which  accompanies  the  revision  was  prepared  by  Judge  Veazey.    In  that  he  tells  you  fully  the plan of the work, and the reasons which actuated the commissioners in the course they pursued. The arrangement of  topics  in  the “Revised Laws of Vermont,” as  they have named  the work,  is much more logical than that of the General Statutes. The commissioners have simplified and reduced to a uniformity the diverse expressions used in the General Statutes.  They have so condense what is now contained in the General Statutes in 790 pages, and in the session laws since 1862 in 1233 pages, that when printed as the General Statutes now are, it will be comprised in about 700 pages.  They have not intentionally changed the substance or intent of any law. Together  with  their  report  they  offer  an  Appendix  that  consists  of  notes,  explanatory,  corrective  and  in recommendation  of  amendments.    I  need  not  take  time  here  to  call  your  attention  to  the  various  amendments and  changes  proposed.    They  are  important,  and  will  command  your  careful  consideration.    For  greater convenience  of  reference  the  sections  are  numbered  from  first  to  last  continuously  or  successively  throughout the  volume.    In  the  Appendix  the  commissioners  have  made  such  recommendations  of  changes  as  seemed desirable  to  them,  after  a  careful  examination  of  the  entire  laws  of  the  State.    Such  suggestions  as  they  make must have great weight with you.   CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS. Section one of article  twenty-five of  the amendments of  the Constitution of  the State, being a section of  the articles  of  amendment  adopted  by  the Convention  held  at Montpelier,  June  8th, A.D.  1870,  provides  that  at  the session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State,  A.D.  1880,  the  Senate  may,  by  a  vote  of  two-thirds  of  its members,  make  proposals  of  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  State,  which  proposals  of  amendment,  if concurred  in by a majority of  the members of  the House of Representatives,  shall be entered on  the Journals of the  two Houses,  and  referred  to  the General Assembly  then  next  to  be  chosen,  and  then  the  section  goes  on  to provide  what  is  necessary  to  complete  the  amendment,    This  is  the  year  and  this  is  the  session  at  which amendments  are  to  be  proposed  by  the  Senate  and  concurred  in  by  the  House,  and  thus  started  on  their  way towards completion. This is a very important duty on the part of the Senate.  It rests with them to initiate every amendment to the Constitution.    It  is  incumbent upon  them neither  to  initiate  any hasty,  frivolous of  illy  considered  amendments, nor to stand in the way of such reasonable propositions as express the true wishes of a majority of the people. PETIT JURY. Article  twelve  of  the  first  part  of  the Constitution,  sometimes  called  the Bill  of Rights,  provides  that when any  issue  in  fact, proper  for  the cognizance of a  jury,  is  joined  in a court of  law,  the parties have a  right  to  trial by  jury,  which  ought  to  be  held  sacred.    This  section  briefly  states  the  principle  that  has  so  long  been  dear  to Englishmen  and  the  English-speaking  races.    The  right  to  be  tried  by  one’s  peer  is  sacred  in  the  eyes  of  all friends  of  liberty  and  justice.    When  this  principle  and  this  right  stood  as  a  barrier  between  a  tyrannical government, represented by partial judges on the one hand, and a people powerless to vindicate its rights on the other, they seemed to every aspirant for freedom to be of incalculable value.  The establishment of the principle in the frame of government, and the acknowledgment of the right in the practice of the courts, marked an era in the advancement of human liberty.  We should not esteem the right lightly. Yet  we  may  bear  in  mind  that  society  and  government  are  differently  constituted  at  this  day  and  in  this State,  from what  they were  in England when  the contest  for  this  right  first arose.   Every man  in Vermont  is  the peer of the highest judge or of the highest officer of the State, in the eyes of the law.  Business and the character of  suits  in  courts  of  law  have  changed.   A  large  class  of  cases  has  now  arisen  that  can much  better  be  tried  by the  court  alone,  or  by  an  auditor  or  a  referee,  than  by  a  jury.    Men  feel  no  insecurity  in  regard  to  their  rights when  tried  by  the  court  or  by  the  officers  of  court  named.    Many  times  it  is  only  those  suitors  who  have  a doubtful case, who are anxious to tempt the hazardous lot of a trial by jury.  Not that I would cast any reflections upon jury trials, as conducted before intelligent jurors in Vermont, for I believe  in  the  large  majority  of  cases  they  do  substantial  justice  between  the  parties.    But  it  seems  to  me  that there should be some reasonable limit fixed, not to the enjoyment of the right of trial by jury, but to the abuse of that right. Whenever  there  is  any  possible  chance  of  its  standing  as  a  barrier  against  oppression,  and  in  every  case where it is or may seem to be a bulwark to surround and protect the weak, let it be undisturbed.  But it seems to me  that  there  are  certain  classes  of  cases  that  can  better  be  tried  without  the  aid  or  incumbrance  of  a  jury.  Already  the  law  denies  the  right  of  trial  by  jury  in  actions  of  book  account  and  petitions  for  divorce.    No  one feels aggrieved by this.  All acknowledge that the adjustment of long accounts and the details of family troubles can better be dealt with by the court or some branch of the court, than by a jury of twelve men.  Yet, even now, the suitor, by bringing his action in assumpsit, instead of in the form of action known in this State  as  book-account, may  compel  the court  to grant him  a  jury  trial upon hundreds of  items of  account.    It  is true  that  this  does  not  often  happen,  for  the  reason  that  counsel  generally  advise  that  such  suits  be  referred  to some suitable person who really acts as auditor, although not such in name. I  am  satisfied  that  some  restriction  might  safely  be  made  in  this  direction,  more  especially  since  the reference  law  adopted  at  the  last  session  of  the  Legislature,  seems  to  be  giving  so  general  satisfaction.    If  no other change is made, certainly the jury fee should be so increased in the class of cases involving accounts, as to offer  no  inducement  to  suitors  to  call  for  a  jury.    Upon  this  matter  I  would  refer  you  to  the  report  upon  court expenses made by the commissioners who were appointed to revise the laws. GRAND JURY. Whether  the  duties  of  the  grand  jury  should  not  be  somewhat  modified,  I  submit  to  your  candid consideration,  without  further  suggestion  than  to  again  call  your  attention  to  the  report  just  referred  to.    This would not necessarily be a constitutional change, but I refer to it here in connection with the changes suggested in  connection  with  the  petit  jury.    Some  of  the  changes  suggested  in  relation  to  the  petit  jury  may  be  simply changes if the law and not of the Constitution. THE BIENNIAL SYSTEM. The  biennial  system  of  elections  seems  to  have worked  very  satisfactorily,  but  there  is  an  increasing  desire on  the  part  of  gentlemen  conversant  with  public  affairs  to  have  annual  rather  than  biennial  sessions  of  the Legislature.   This would necessarily entail  increased expense  to  the State.    It  is  for you  to consider whether  the additional  expense  will  be  more  than  overbalanced  by  the  greater  advantages  of  annual  sessions.    Were  the question  of  expense  out  of  the  way  I  should  not  hesitate  to  recommend  a  return  to  annual  sessions  of  the Legislature.  I  should  do  this  the more  readily  for  the  reason  that  I  feel  confident  that  our  Legislatures  express and carry out the will of the people in the result of their deliberations. The  retiring message  of Governor  Proctor  has  called  attention  to  some  important  suggestions  in  relation  to amendments that I need not further discuss. MILITIA. The  small militia  force  of  the  State  is  in  a  very  efficient  condition,  and  at  extremely  slight  public  expense.  Its admirable condition is not due to its having been fostered by the State, but to the natural military spirit of our people, and to the fact that some of the officers and soldiers who served during the Rebellion, have taken a deep interest  in  the  single  regiment  and  portion  of  a  battery,  which  represent  our  entire  military  force.    It  is  to  be hoped  that  we  may  never  again  know  the  suffering  that  results  from  war,  but  a  prudent  government  will  not allow  itself  to be unprepared  for a possible emergency, nor allow  the military  spirit of  its people  to entirely die out.    MILITARY HISTORIAN. At its last session, the two Houses adopted a joint resolution providing for a State Military Historian, and the Governor  appointed  Hon.  G.G.  Benedict  to  that  position,  and  he  at  once  commenced  his  labors  by  collecting materials  for  the  history.    But  the  work  of  preparation  was  stopped  by  a  decision  of  the  State  Auditor  that  the resolution, having  failed  to  receive  the Governor’s  signature, did not constitute  such an “Act of Legislation” as would  warrant  payments  from  the  treasury  for  the  necessary  expenses.    The  collection  of  the materials  for  the history has nevertheless gone on, and the completion of the work awaits the action of the Legislature. I  have  no  doubt  your  will  adopt  the  necessary  legislation  to  complete  this  work  which,  evidently,  both Houses  and  the  Governor  concurred  in  at  the  last  session,  and  which  has  only  been  delayed  by  the  method  of legislation.    It  would  be  bad  faith  on  the  part  of  the  State  not  to  complete  the  contract  inaugurated  by  my predecessor.    Had  the  joint  resolution  received  the  signature  of  the  Governor,  undoubtedly  the  Auditor  would have allowed the necessary bills of expense. But appropriations ought not to be attempted by joint resolution. THE STATE PRISON. The directors of  the State Prison,  in accordance with section 2 of an act of  the Legislature passed at  the  last session,  have  erected  a  new  building  for  a  work-shop,  chapel,  and  other  purposes.    It  is  entirely  of  brick,  is ninety-five feet  long and  thirty-two feet  in width, and  two stories  in height, above  the basement.   The roof  is of slate, with tin gutters and a fire proof cornice.  The sum appropriated for the purpose was three thousand dollars.  By  availing  themselves  of  some  convict  labor,  the  directors  have  been  able  to  complete  a  very  satisfactory building  and keep within  the  appropriation.   They have also built a double gate, which was  required  for  safety, and this has been done within the appropriation for that purpose.     A  good  system  of  ventilation  has  been  introduced  into  the  new  prison,  and  it  is  to  be  extended  to  the  old one.    Some  other  improvements  are  suggested  in  the  report  of  the  directors  which  are  much  needed,  and  for which appropriation should be made. In  examining  the  accounts  of  the  late  Superintendent,  errors  were  discovered  by  Mr.  Rice,  the  present Superintendent,  amounting  to  $1,508.05,  and  he  was  directed  to  collect  the  same,  which  he  has  done  and returned it to the State Treasury.  The  act  of  Legislature  last  referred  to,  also  provides  for  the  erection  of  anew  prison  building  to accommodate  those  prisoners  who  were  unprovided  with  cells.    At  the  time  of  the  visit  of  the  legislative Committee, October 18, 1878, there were confined in the State Prison one hundred and eighty-six convicts, and there were but one hundred and fifty-six cells for their accommodation.  There seemed then to be an immediate necessity  for  an  increase  of  cell-room;  hence,  the  adoption  of  section  1,  of  the  act  referred  to.    But  since  the House of Correction has been opened for convicts, there has been a decided falling off in the number sent to the State  Prison,  so  that  on  the  31st  day  of  July,  1880,  there  were  but  one  hundred  and  forty-two  convicts  at Windsor,  and  the  number  is  not  likely  to  be  large  enough  to  fill  all  the  cells  for  some  time;  consequently  the directors  have  not  built  the  additional  prison  building  provided  for  by  the  act  of  1878.    This  falling  off  in  the number of convicts  in  the State Prison  is partly due  to  the  fact  that  the House of Correction now  takes  some of the  same  class  of  criminals  that  were  formerly  sent  to  the  State  Prison,  but  it  is  principally  due  to  a  great decrease in high crimes in the State. HOUSE OF CORRECTION. When  the Legislature was  last  in  session,  the House of Correction was unfinished,  and not  ready  to  receive prisoners.   It has since been completed, and at  the  time of  the report of  the directors (who are  the same as  those of the State Prison), July 31, 1880, it had been in use twenty months. The whole number of prisoners during  that  time was  three hundred and sixty-five.   The number confined at the time of the report I cannot state, but I believe it was about as many as the institution can accommodate. The  same building  is  also used  for  the purposes of  the Rutland County  jail.   At  the date of  the  report,  there were four Rutland County prisoners. The  directors  have  let  the  convicts’  labor  for  the  finishing  of  marble  during  the  term  of  five  years  from September  1,  1879,  at  twenty-five  cents  per  day  for  each  convict,  up  to  August  1,  1880  and  thirty  cents thereafter.    It was with difficulty  that  any  contract  at all  could be made, partly on  account of  the  short  terms of many  of  the  prisoners.    Before  the  contract  was  made,  the  convicts  were  worked  on  the  grounds,  grading, building wall, &c. The  directors,  in  their  report,  say  that  “For  the  year  ending  August  1,  1880,  the  current  expenses  of  the entire  institution,  including Rutland County  jail, were $9,235.09.   If  the prisoners had been employed under  the contract  during  the  entire  year,  and  upon  the  same  pay  as  since  August  1,  1880,  their  earning  would  have amounted to $5,873.61, leaving a balance against the State for the current expenses of a year of only $3,361.48.  The cost to the State of Rutland County jail, previous to the establishment of the House of Correction, exceeded that sum—the average expense being $3,500 a year, and more than that amount since 1870. The Auditor’s  report,  to which  I  have  already  referred,  shows  that  the  expenses  of  all  the  jails  in  the  State for  the  year  ending  August  1,  1880,  are  nearly  $9,000  less  than  for  the  year  ending  August  1,  1878.    The directors  in  their  report  claim  that  this  is  mainly  attributable  to  the  establishment  of  the  House  of  Correction.  This is true to some extent. But  a  further  examination  of  the  Auditor’s  account  shows  that  the  jail  expenses  diminished  from  July  31, 1877, to the same day in 1878, $2,958.72, and this was before the House of Correction was established. From  the  last date  to  the corresponding day  in 1879,  the expenses of  jails  fell off $3,518.84.   The House of Correction was opened to receive prisoners December, 1878, so it may be supposed to have had some influence during the last year named; but we must believe that the same influences were at work in other respects in 1879 and  1880  as  in  1877.    If  this  is  so,  then  only  about  one-third  of  the  $9,000  diminution  of  jail  expenses  for  the last  two  years  is  to  be  credited  to  the  House  of  Correction.    There  has  been  a  strong  disposition  to  diminish expenses  in  all  public  departments  throughout  the  State  for  more  than  four  years,  and  with  a  good  degree  of success.  The  directors  also  claim  that  the  institution  has  been  a  very  efficient  collector  of  fines  and  costs,  and  it undoubtedly  has  been.    They  say  that  the  State  has  received  from  that  source  during  the  past  year  nearly $16,000  more  than  was  ever  received  before  in  any  one  year.    They  believe  that  the  House  of  Correction  will not  only  become  self-supporting,  but  soon  pay  for  itself,  taking  into  consideration  the  additional  incentives  to the  payment  of  fines.    One  very  gratifying  statement  is,  that  of  the  $30,000  appropriated  by  the  Legislature  in 1878 for the support of the institution, the directors have drawn from the treasury only $25,219.69.  While  visiting  the  House  of  Correction,  I  learned  that  sheriffs  and  other  officers,  as  the  law  now  is,  draw double  the  treble  and  perhaps  more  fees  for  the  single  transportation  and  commitment  of  a  prisoner  who  has been convicted of different offenses and sentenced  to serve several  terms.   This ought  to be corrected.   In some instances where  the officer drew  treble  fees,  the prisoner was also serving out  three sentences at  the same  time.  If  there  is  any  uncertainty  in  the  law  in  this  respect,  it  should  be  made  certain.    There  are  some  valuable suggestions upon this subject in the report of the Commissioners on Court Expenses. The directors of the House of Correction recommend an enlargement of the workshop.  The shop now in use was  built  by  the  directors  without  an  appropriation  therefore,  and  they  pledged  their  own  credit  to  raise  the funds.   The  contract  for  the  labor  of  the  convicts  could  not  be made  available without  the  shop.   The  directors also bought a  strip of  land  for  the purpose of making a better entrance  to  the property, and also built a  fence  in front of  the Superintendent’s house.   For all  those bills  there is due about six  thousand dollars.   They should be provided for by the necessary appropriation. REFORM SCHOOL. This  excellent  institution  has  been  so  long  in  existence  that  I  need  not  spend  time  in  giving  any  particular account  of  it.    Two  years  ago  the  Legislature  appropriated  ten  thousand  dollars  to  defray  the  expense  of enlarging  the  boys’  school  building,  subject  however  to  the  approval  of  the  governor.   The  trustees,  some  time since, became satisfied that such enlargement should be made, principally for the reason that they are compelled to  put  nearly  one  hundred  boys  into  a  sleeping  apartment  that  is  really  adapted  to  only  about  sixty.    My predecessor, however, declined to give his approval to such expenditure, for good reasons, which have appeared in  his message.   The  trustees  have  stated  the  reasons why  there  should  be  an  extension  of  the  buildings,  at  full length in their report.  And thus the matter stands at this time.  The matter is so fully discussed in the report and message  referred  to,  or  will  be  in  the  General  Assembly  during  the  session,  that  I  have  no  doubt  you  will  be much  better  fitted  to  decide  the  question  than  any  one  person,  and  I  submit  that  the  General  Assembly  either repeal the act of 1878, making the appropriation, or make the appropriation absolute and unconditional. The  total  expense  of  the  school  for  the  two years  ending  July 31, 1880,  is $39,384.25.   The net  earnings of the school for the same time amount to $4,953.32. The  receipts  from  all  sources,  including  the  earnings,  amount  received  from  towns,  tuitions,  produce  sold, &c., amount to $13,647.11, leaving a balance to be met by orders on the State Treasury of $25,737.14, which is $9,262.86 less than the appropriation. The number of boys in the institution, July 31, 1878, was one hundred and twenty-two.  On the same day in 1880,  the  number  was  one  hundred  and  three.    The  number  of  girls  in  1878  was  twenty-three;  in  1880 nineteen—showing a decrease in numbers of twenty-three.  The whole number of commitments during the year has been twenty two boys and three girls.  The total number of commitments during the existence of the school, has been six hundred and nineteen, ranging from six years of age to nineteen.  There were committed during the last year, two of nine years of age and two of ten, and there are several of that age in the school.  They all labor six hours a day and are in school for four hours.  On the Sabbath they attend service in the chapel, and take part in the Sabbath school.  A certain portion of each day is devoted to recreation and amusement under the eye of a keeper.    As  I  looked  upon  those  children,  eight,  nine  and  ten  years  of  age,  busy  and  skillful  at  their  labors,  it seemed cruel to think that childhood to some of them is to be blotted out; that they must, every moment, live up to a strict rule without one forgiving word from a mother’s lips, or one warm embrace from a mother’s arms, in sickness  or  in  health,  in  pain  or  grief.    A  mother’s  warm  uneducated  heart  is  often  a  better  instructor  than  the cold machinery of a state institution. But when we  remember  that many of  these  children have  lost one or both parents, or have drunken  fathers, and  that  most  of  the  scholars  are  in  there  for  a  breach  of  the  laws  of  the  State,  we  realize  that  the  school  is  a necessity,  but  that  the  pupils  should  be  sent  from  it  as  soon  as  is  safe  for  themselves  and  the  community.   The school  is  under  excellent  management,  and  the  superintendent  and  his  wife,  the  matron  of  the  institution,  are both Christian people, and deeply interested in the welfare of their pupils. EDUCATION. If  we  did  our  entire  duty  in  regard  to  education,  we  might  save  a  large  share  of  the  expense  of  the  three institutions  to which  I have  just called your attention.    In 1878  there were  sixty-eight commitments  to  the State Prison;  of  these  thirty-one  were  natives  of  Vermont,  and  only  thirteen  foreigners.    I  use  the  statistics  of  1878, because  I have not  those of 1880  at hand.    In 1878  there were one hundred  and  eighty  six  convicts  in  the State Prison;  of  these  seventy-two were  natives  of Vermont,  and  only  thirty-nine  of  foreign  birth.    Surely we  cannot charge the crimes of our State upon the uneducated foreigners who come to our shores. The  large  villages  and  cities  of  the  State  are  all  well  provided  with  schools;  but  many  of  the  sparsely inhabited  portions  of  the  State  have  schools  but  a  few  months  in  a  year,  and  those  of  an  inferior  kind.    The inhabitants are so few, or are so straitened in circumstances, that they cannot support good schools.  The remedy for this is to have the expense of schools fall to a greater extent upon the whole State. The  State  Superintendent  of  Education  advises  the  raising  of  a  tax  of  twenty-five  cents  on  the  dollar  in addition  to  all  other  State  taxes,  to  be  used  for  general  school  purposes,  one  half  of  this  fund  to  be  divided among  the  towns and cities of  the State  in proportion  to  their population, and  the other half  in proportion  to  the aggregate  attendance of  scholars upon  the public  schools.   This  is making quite  a  sweeping  change,  and  it may strike  you  as  too  much  of  an  experiment.    I  would  suggest  that  the  nine  per  cent  tax  provided  for  in  section eighty  of  chapter  twenty-two  of  the  General  Statutes  be  increased  considerably.    This  will  tend  to  help  the weaker portions of the several towns. Our  best  educators  tell  us  that  we  are  not  keeping  pace  with  the  progress  of  other  States  in  our  public schools.   One  reason  for  this  is  the  lack  of  trained  teachers.   We  have  three Normal  Schools, which  have  done some good work in the way of supplying teachers specially fitted for their work.  But complaint is made that for the  last  four  years  not  more  than  one-half  of  the  teachers  in  our  Normal  Schools  have  themselves  been  either graduates  or  students  of  any Normal School whatsoever.   This  is  said  to be due  to  the  fact  that  the  selection of the subordinate teachers is left mainly to the principal, who is affected by personal interest or local influences in his  choice  of  assistants.    The  instructors  of  teachers  should  certainly  have  had  some  drill  in  a  Normal  School before  attempting  to  teach  others.    The  remedy  is  to  place  the  appointment  of  all  teachers  under  the  charge  of the  State  in  some  way.    I  desire  to  say  more  upon  the  important  subject  of  education,  but  I  have  not  seen  the Superintendent’s report, and can only make general suggestions. The  State  Superintendent  of  Education  has  done  good  work,  and  his  energy  and  industry  are  greatly  to  be commended, but  it seems  to me  that  if he were sustained by a competent Board of Education, selected from  the leading  educators  of  the  State  or  from  men  interested  in  the  subject  of  education,  he  would  appeal  to  all  the varied interests of this important subject with much greater force. The  text-book  law,  that  was  really  so  much  of  an  experiment,  has  by  the  help  of  the  people  working  for harmony,  been  quite  a  success  in most  parts  of  the  State.    In many  counties  all  of  the  towns  have  adopted  the same  text-books,  and  so  far  it  seems  to  work  as  well  as  a  law  providing  one  set  of  text-books  to  be  used throughout  the  whole  State.    On  the  other  hand  there  are  instances  of  union  districts,  made  up  from  fractional districts  in  adjoining  towns,  that  have  adopted  different  books,  thus  there  are  two  sets  of  books  to  be  used  by legal  authority,  in  the  same  school.   Some  provision  should  be made  to  remedy  this  trouble.   The  report  of  the State  Superintendent will  undoubtedly  be  full  of  instruction  and  useful  suggestions.    I  respectfully  refer  you  to that for further information upon this subject. AGRICULTURE. This  important material  interest of  the State can never be overlooked.    It presses upon us  the  importance of its  claims  in  every  corner  of  the  commonwealth.   The  report  of  the  Superintendent will  tell  you what  has  been accomplished  during  the  past  two  years  by  the  instruction  furnished,  and  the  interest  aroused  at  the  meetings held  by  him.    He  has  held  many  instructive  meetings  in  connection  with  the  officers  and  instructors  of  the University of Vermont  and State Agricultural College,  and other  lecturers  in  all  parts  of  the State.    I  am happy to  be  able  to  state  that  these  two  great  branches  of  instruction  in  agriculture,  the  Superintendent  and  the University,  have  labored  in  perfect  accord  during  the  past  two  years.    I  must  refer  you  to  the  report  of  the Superintendent for further information. There was a time when the State had a Board of Manufacturers and Mining as well as of Agriculture.  When the Superintendent of Agriculture was appointed, did the State lose its interest in manufactures and mining?  We have  already  great  interests  in marble  and  slate  quarries  and  copper mines,  and  ought  to  have  in manufactures.  Something should be done to encourage manufacturing interests, and to tempt men to invest their money in such enterprises within our borders. UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT AND STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. The report of the trustees of this State institution always makes one satisfactory statement.  Notwithstanding its  income  is  small,  its  expenses  are  always  kept within  that  limit.    I  quote  a  few words  from  the  report  at  this time”    “An  institution  which  can  year  after  year  resist  the  temptation  to  overdraw  its  income,  and  which continues  to  exhibit  a  careful  economy  in  its  administration,  makes  a  strong  appeal  for  confidence  and patronage  both  to  the  Legislature  and  to  public  spirited  individuals.    But  the  means  of  the  institution  are inadequate  to  the  work  which  it  is  called  upon  to  do.    If  it  were  required  to  furnish  only  the  old-fashioned college  curriculum,  its  present  income  with  its  present  number  of  students  might  be  sufficient.    But  an institution  confining  itself  to  this  narrow  line  of  work  cannot  meet  the  demands  of  modern  education,  The University,  in  undertaking  to  fulfill  the  obligations  incurred  by  the  State  through  the  acceptance  of  the Congressional  land  grant,  namely,  to  provide  a  liberal  and  practical  education which  should  fit men  for  all  the pursuits  and  professions  in  life,  assumed  an  additional  amount  of  work  which  the  additional  income  is inadequate  to  supply.    The  satisfactory  balance  sheet  must  not  be  suffered  to  disguise  the  fact  that  the  higher education  in Vermont  is  suffering,  because  the  State University  has  not  sufficient means  to  do  its work  as  that work is done in other States.  The administration of the institution can claim the credit of economy:  the State at large  in  its  dealing  with  the  institution  can  claim  only  parsimony.    The  present  condition  of  the  University  is such  as  to  furnish  reason  for  the  enlargement of  its means.    It  is  free  from debt:  every dollar  added  to  its  funds can  be  devoted  to  the  work  of  the  future.    Its  financial  policy  is  adapted  to  secure  confidence  and  attract investments.   The  fundamental work  of  college  instruction  is  already  provided  for:  all  additional means  can  be devoted  to  visible  extension  and  improvement.   The  spirit  of  the  institution  has  shown  itself  to  be  progressive.  The  fathers  of  the  commonwealth  pledged  the  institution  to  enterprise  and  the  State  to  its  support,  when  they gave it the name of a University.” The University has received some donations during the last two years of not large amount. Henry  P.  Hickok  of  Burlington  has  conveyed  to  the  University  a  lot  of  land  of  350  acres  in  the  town  of Stowe, of the estimated value of $1,200. Mrs.  Celinda A.B.  Lilley  of Montpelier  has  paid  into  the  treasurer  the  sum  of  $5,000,  to  be  available  after her death and that of a relative, for the education of young women. Rev.  C.C.  Parker,  D.D.,  formerly  of Waterbury,  Vt.,  late  of  New  Jersey,  made  provision  before  his  death, for  the  endowment  of  the  “Parker  Scholarship,”  by  the  payment  of  $1,000,  which  sum  as  been  paid  into  the treasury by his executor.  Some smaller donations to the library, cabinet and laboratory, are also acknowledged.  During  the  year  1878-9  there  were  in  the  academical  department  eighty-two  under  graduates,  and  in  the medical  department  one  hundred  and  forty  students;  during  the  year  1879-80  there  were  eighty-one undergraduates and one hundred and forty-three medical students. The  number  of  students  in  all  departments might  easily  be  increased  by  some  fostering  care  on  the  part  of the  State  towards  the  child  of  her  own  creation.   During  the  academical  year  1877-8,  there were  in Dartmouth College  sixty  academical,  fourteen  scientific  and  twenty  four medical  students  from Vermont.   A  large  portion of these ninety-eight students should be in some of our own colleges. The work among  the  farmers, done by  the University  in connection with  the Superintendent of Agriculture, has proved successful, as well as the Veterinary lectures of Prof. Cressey and the lectures of Prof. Atwater, Prof. Perkins and Pres. Buckham, at the meetings throughout the State. “It  became manifest  at  these meetings,  and  increasingly  so  as  they went  on,  that  the work which  had  been done  during  the  past  ten  years  by  the  Board  of  Agriculture,  the  Superintendent  of  Agriculture  and  the University, is resulting in a great awakening of thought and quickening of the spirit of improvement all through the agricultural classes of the State.” For the results of the experiments with fertilizers, I refer you to the report of the trustees. More  than  three hundred boys from one hundred and forty six  towns have entered  to compete for  the prizes offered by the trustees of U.V.M., to those under seventeen years of age who shall, raise the largest crop of corn and potatoes on one-eighth of an acre of  land.   There are  ten prizes from $25  to $5, and  two scholarships  in  the University of Vermont and State Agricultural College, offered to competitors. The  report  suggests  that  free  scholarship  be  provided  for  by  the  State  in  those  branches  pertaining  to agriculture,  and  I  would  recommend  that  at  least  as  much  be  done  in  this  direction  as  is  done  for  the  Normal Schools. There are  to be  three  trustees of  the University of Vermont and State Agricultural College elected  to fill  the vacancies occasioned by the expiration of the term of those trustees whose office expires in 1881, and one to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Ex Gov. Peck. INSANE ASYLUM. Two years  ago  the Legislature  created  the office of Supervisors of  the  Insane, and  the gentlemen appointed to  that office make  their  report  for  the past  two years.   They make one very  important suggestion which should receive your  consideration.   Some provision  should be made  for  the convict  insane.   Now  there  is no provision by which  they  are  separated  from  the ordinary  insane of  the  asylum.   Such persons ought not  to be  treated  like the  ordinary  convicts  of  the State Prison,  and  yet  is  seems wrong  to  place  them  among  the  innocent  insane.    If not  violent  in  their  conduct  and  dangerous  to  the  persons  of  those  with  whom  they  associate,  their  influence would be bad.  Men may be insane, and yet not be willing to associate with criminals. There  are  throughout  the  State  a  few  persons  violently  and  dangerously  insane,  whose  friends,  from mistaken motives  of  kindness,  are  unwilling  to  have  them  committed  to  the  asylum.    The  Supervisors  ask  that they have power to commit such persons on proper proof of their condition.  This is stepping upon very delicate ground.   Certainly  the public  is entitled  to be protected from dangerous assaults so far as  the  law can do so, but at the same time the right of an individual to his personal liberty must not be infringed upon for slight grounds. The  Supervisors  were  appointed  to  examine  into  the  condition  of  the  insane  asylums  of  the  State,  hear  the grievances  of  the  patients  apart  from  the  officers  and  keepers,  and  especially  ascertain  whether  persons  are therein confined who ought to be discharged, and report to the Governor and Legislature. The  Supervisors  speak  well  of  the  asylum  at  Brattleboro,  and  say  that  only  four  patients  have  been discharged during the past two years by their direction under the law. The reports of the trustees and of the Superintendent and other officers of the asylum will be before you, and from  them you can  learn of  the condition of  this very necessary  institution, and will  take such action as may be advisable in relation thereto. REPORTS OF STATE OFFICERS. In this connection I desire to say a word in relation to the reports of State officers.  It is quite important that the Governor elect, as well as to retiring governor, should see all the reports before making his message.  Under the  present  method  of  printing  them,  immediately  before  the  session  of  the  legislature,  it  is  impossible  to  see them  all,  and difficult  to give  those  that  are  seen  the  examination  they  are  entitled  to.   Nearly  all of  the  reports that I have seen I have borrowed from  the State printer in manuscript for a short  time.   I would suggest  that  the officers be required either to have their reports printed at least three weeks before the session of the Legislature, and copies furnished the retiring and incoming Governor, or to furnish manuscript copies to both as early as the time named. STATE LIBRARY, CABINET, AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY. Four years ago the Legislature became satisfied that something must be done to extend the accommodations of  the  above  named  collections,  and  by  joint  resolution  directed  the  Governor  to  appoint  commissioners  to report  upon  the  subject  at  the  next  session.    Such  report  was  made  two  years  ago,  but  the  Legislature  took  no action  upon  it.    I  call  your  attention  to  it  at  this  time  as  being  a  subject  well  worthy  of  your  consideration.  Something must  be  done  very  soon,  or  the  State  will  lose many  valuable  books  and  documents  that  cannot  be replaced.    If  the  plan  proposed  by  the  commissioners  is  not  satisfactory,  some  other  plan  ought  to  be  devised and  acted  on  without  further  delay.    Any  plan  will  involve  large  expense,  and  each  new  Legislature  hopes  to transfer the responsibility to its successor.  In the end this will prove to be very poor economy. UNITED STATES SENATOR. The  term  of  service  of  the  Hon.  George  F.  Edmunds  in  the  United  State  Senate  will  expire  in  1881,  and before  another  regular  session  of  the  State  Legislature.    Your  attention  is  called  to  the  necessity  of  electing  at the present session of the Legislature a successor for the six years ensuing the expiration of his term. RE-DISTRICTING THE STATE. The  census  of  the  State  just  completed  shows  the  population  of  the  State,  according  to  the  report  of  the Supervisor  for  the District of Vermont, as published  in  the newspapers,  to be 332,648, which  is a gain of 2,097 since the census of 1870.  Should there be a change in the representation in Congress, as is quite likely to be the case, and the proportion of the population to be represented by each member of the House of Representatives be increased,  Vermont  would  lose  one  of  her  Representatives  in  Congress,  and  that  would  necessitate  a redistricting  of  the State.   This  probably  belongs  to  you  to  provide  for,  as  the  change  in  the  representation will undoubtedly be made before the regular session of the General Assembly in 1882. If  you  should  think  that  his  matter  has  not  been  sufficiently  considered  by  the  people,  the  subject  of  re-districting  might  be  left  to  the  next  Legislature,  provided  you  by  some  proper  act  of  legislation  postpone  the next  election  of  members  of  Congress  until  the  Legislature  of  1882  can  have  acted  upon  the  subject.    In  that case  the  action  of  Congress will  be  definitely  known  before  any  action  of  the  State  Legislature  need  be  taken.  Otherwise the action of the present Legislature must be simply provisional. CONCLUSION. When  we  look  back  over  the  history  of  our  State  for  the  past  two  years  we  find  many  causes  for thankfulness.   We  have  notably  escaped  the  great  scourges  of mankind, war,  pestilence  and  famine.   We  have been  at  peace within  our  borders,  and  the  country  at  large  has  been  at  peace with  the  nations  of  the world;  no great  epidemic  has  swept  through  our  State;  abundance  has  crowned  the  labors  of  the  husbandman,  and rewarded  the  industry  of  the  artisan.    Let  us meet  in  a  devout  spirit  of  thankfulness  to  the Maker  of  all  things, and perform our responsible duties in a spirit of reverence to Him, and of strict obedience to His laws.  ROSWELL FARNHAM.          Executive chamber, Montpelier, Vt., Oct. 7, 1880.          }